There's a lot of negativity hiding out
in pockets of the market that have not
performed.
>> The outlook for the equity market from
here is not really that robust.
>> You're really seeing this pivot and
rotation.
>> You got to follow the tech stocks. If
they go down, the market's going to go
down.
>> For most investors, they're really lever
to what's happening at the Fed. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, looking for stability.
Antitrust relief for Google supporting
an equity market bounce as bond market
jitters keep global bond yields near
multi-deade highs. Investors worldwide
are looking for an extra read on the US
labor market in a week packed with data.
Yeah, it's a week packed with data at a
time where there's a perfect storm
brewing in the bond market. And the key
question for markets right now is just
what kind of data do we need to give
some cal to this storm to give some
basis for what the rate cutting cycle
will be ahead of time and how much we
have to think about political
dysfunction inflation and then maybe a
US economy that can keep tugging along
and keeping stability on it all.
>> Joel's data job openings coming up a
little bit later on this morning. Let's
start with this US economy. ISM
yesterday, not great, but the new index,
new orders index, that component, that
subcomponent signaling maybe things are
bouncing back. Just reinforcing that
sneaky bullc case that's out there that
we talked about yesterday that maybe
this economy could reacelerate.
>> The fact that you're looking at the
subcomponents of the ISM manufacturing
PMIs shows you just what we're up
against right now. And the fact that
we're looking at any granular data to
give us a hint at a time where there's
less faith in the overall benchmark data
that we're going to get on Friday. Look,
you could pick your own adventure. This
has been the story consistently
throughout the year with the PMI data
that we got yesterday. On one hand, it
came in in contraction for the sixth
straight reading. Not great. On the
other hand, new orders good. On the
other hand, employment bad. On the other
hand, inflation seemed to be suppressed.
You could pick your own story. The key
question here is going forward, is there
something else brewing in bond markets
that supersedes the near-term data and
speaks to a question of the reaction
function of central banks that allow
inflation to run hotter for longer? This
is what's brewing in the commodity
market right now. 7 days of gains for
gold, all-time highs, 30% plus move so
far this year. And crude rolling over in
the last few minutes. Bren crude down by
1.8%. This from Reuters just moments
ago. OPEC plus to consider a further oil
output hike this coming weekend. This
move in crude supporting the bond market
speaking to that inflationary story.
Anyone who traveled over the Labor Day
weekend saw how much oil prices are
really some knowledge at a time of
inflation elsewhere. And this has been
supported by how much production there
has been. And OPEC plus read Saudi
Arabia trying to maintain its market
share. Definitely uh a huge win in terms
of suppressing inflation. How much this
could really tap down longerterm
expectations though? I don't know. A
little bit more questionable. I was
struck by this question that Morgan
Stanley put out there over the weekend
that what we heard at Jackson Hole
suggested a different type of reaction
function where there would be an
acceptance of volatile inflation into
the future which is part of what's
undermining a lot of the confidence.
This near-term oil price decline is
really going to lead to longerterm quiet
inflation.
>> Brent crude down by 1.8%. Brent crude
this morning 67 91. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Julian Emanuel of
Evacore with stocks looking to break a
two-day slide. We'll catch up with Kate
McShane of Goldman Sachs on the state of
the retailers. And we'll speak to Joanna
Chua of City as China flexes its
muscles. We begin this hour with stocks
bouncing back following a big win for
big tech. Jun Emanuel of Evercore
looking for the S&P to rise to 7750 by
the end of next year, writing, "Inves
investors have been offered a twice in a
lifetime opportunity with a
technological revolution lifting stocks,
multiples, and society to new heights."
Jillian joins us now for more. Jillian,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Bigger than the internet and pushing 8K
and the S&P 500 by year end next year.
That's quite a statement.
So look, there was a lot of
consideration gone into this and and as
you know and we've talked about this a
lot. Uh two things, valuation is always
in our mind, but at the end of the day,
valuation alone is is something that
doesn't end bull markets. And so when
you think about it, particularly going
back to Y2K, we've seen a series of
asset price inflations. I won't call
them bubbles because this is not a
bubble in our mind. Now that one bigger
than the last, obviously recoveries
after a downturn, uh tech stocks in
2000, housing in in ' 07, uh China
equities actually in 2015, and then uh
the end of the secular bond bull market
in 2020. But when you look at this one,
we're not even three years into the
introduction of chat GPT and it is
already pervading every aspect of
society, every industry. And we're what
what 2025 is showing us is that
companies are starting to be able to
demonstrate how it actually helps
business and to us that's a recipe for
higher stock prices and the theme
carrying into next. Well, let's go with
the internet and then let's talk about
AI. There was a massive misallocation of
resources that interrupted the endgame.
Ultimately, we got there in the end, but
in the middle, what did you call it?
Asset prices inflation.
>> There was a bunch of asset price
inflation.
>> There was a bust,
>> then a bust,
>> and then we had the move to the endgame.
Why would this be any different? uh it
wouldn't necessarily be different but
again part of it is is the fact that
it's too early to look at that down the
cycle. We are still in the the part of
of the sort of the discovery phase where
it's very clear that there is a benefit
acrewing. It's very clear. I mean, think
about it. Uh, you know, you you can't
actually access the world's most popular
search engine without engaging with AI
with AI right now. And I think
demonstrabably that is something that
has has has improved information. uh
we're starting to see, you know, fewer
problems with things that we talked
about six months ago, hallucinations,
and therefore um for us, it's really at
the beginning of this entire cycle. Even
though, and this is part of the wall of
worry that markets climb, the concerns
about the capex overspend by necessity
because the numbers are so large should
be there. There's a lot to unpack there,
especially in lie of the in light of
what we saw overnight from the antitrust
case against the world's biggest search
engine. You could argue that the result
of that had a lot to do with AI and that
Google's fundamental business model is
being challenged dramatically and could
be rendered obsolete by chat GPT. So,
you could say that they were let off the
hook because they don't have the same
kind of monopoly. I mean, how long do
you think it is before people start to
think about other champions of the AI
revolution? And maybe these winners
aren't the big winners at a time where
capex cannot keep pace to your point
with where we've been for the past
couple of years.
>> Well, I think that conversation has been
ongoing. You go back to deepsek and that
was sort of the first heart attack
moment of of the thought that capital
could theoretically be misallocated over
the long haul, which back then was the
short haul. But I think there's a more
important uh uh message from what we've
heard in the last 16 hours or so is that
we are in an environment where uh
regulation is going to be on the lighter
touch side and uh in an environment
where regulation is lighter where the
Fed is likely to if anything ease more
than perhaps the inflation data would
suggest. um and where you've got uh uh
fiscal stimulus as well. All of that
really bodess for an environment where
the animal spirits which actually if you
look at the measures have been
reasonably subdued continue to build
>> animal spirits in the S&P 500 not animal
spirits in the economy. Is this AI
revolution and 20 plus percent gains
next year independent of whatever
happens in the rest of the economy?
Well, it it shouldn't be and if it turns
into a bubble, it likely will be and
we'll be watching that very closely. But
if you look at estimates for both growth
and inflation
sort of quarter by quarter over the next
year or so, the trend is for inflation
to moderate. Again, granted, these are
forecasts and growth to start picking
up. So the direction of travel over the
next year is likely to be favorable.
>> Speaks to the move of the last month,
but the move of the last month has
started to tilt towards cyclicals. So
you're talking about big tech and this
mega theme of AI at a time where the
Russell is starting to outperform even
at a down market in yesterday's session.
Has that got legs? Uh we do think it
does and actually that is one of the
critical differences between now and the
internet revolution is if you looked at
the last two years the stock market
breath was negative decliners over
advancers almost every day for two solid
years. This is the diametric opposite
what we would refer this uh stock market
in 2025 is a participatory democracy.
All the boats are rising. Granted, the
technology themes are outperforming
dramatically, but that's what you should
see in a secular theme type environment,
but they're all rising.
>> We'll spend some time throughout this
morning talking about the bond market.
No doubt yields very close to 5% on
30-year maturities here in the United
States of America. Is that beginning to
become a constraint for equities?
>> Uh well, if you look at the last couple
days, it certainly is. And I think it
it's interesting that uh you the thing
that we feared the most back in March
and April, the imposition of tariffs is
theoretically the thing that's caused
the bond market ruckus of the last few
days that the tariffs might be removed.
Uh so it's sort of a you know on one
hand on the other hand we don't like
two-handed economists. Two-handed
strategists are okay. Um but but the
look it from our point of view
ultimately look at the 10-year yield
right 427 and you could say that the
30-year yield is the benchmark but
really the 10-year yield is and
certainly that's uh where Secretary
Bessant has a focus smack in the middle
of the range. Uh our work has shown once
you climb above 4 and 3/4 it's a
headwind for stocks above five is is is
something else entirely but we're a long
way from that.
>> Just to touch on what you just said then
just a few moments earlier this is a
bond market dependent on the tariff
revenue. Do you believe that now?
>> I think the jury is still out. I I I I
really do. But I do think that when you
talk to our policy people uh that uh the
Trump administration will find a way to
have the tariff revenue continue even if
the the the courts end up ruling
against. There are other avenues to
pursue.
>> Jillian, you're going to stick with us.
Jillian Emanuel of Ever. Your bond
market is settling down just a little
bit. 30s here, Lisa. Yields up only by a
single basis point now. Likewise on tens
and on twos. although globally at the
highest levels in multi- decades. So we
are definitely at pretty high levels and
there's a question of whether this is
high enough to prompt some sort of
response from governments around the
world and that is what we're trying to
hear from a couple of different
politicians. We'll do whatever it takes
even take away two holidays but is it
enough and that's really the question.
>> Did you draw any conclusions on the
price action of of yesterday worldwide
the global moves
>> you know to as to why this was
happening? You know this was actually
the key question for me coming into
today. Why is the bond market selling
off now? We've known all of these
things, but some sort of toxic brew of
political dysfunction, the idea of
inflation readings come in just a little
bit hotter and the change in reaction
function at the Fed to me come together
and something that's just not kind of
settling well. People need a Pepsi.
>> I understand what was happening
yesterday, but I was frustrated by how
many people threw all these different
moves into the same bucket as if it was
one kind of a single theme driving
everything. And if you break it down,
let's go from the end of July and take
the yield curve state side and compare
it to the yield curve in say France and
overlay the move with where we've been
and what we've done over the last month
or so. You'll see a massive bull
steepener in America post payrolls.
Chairman Pal endorsing the move
basically two-year yield drops
aggressively. Tens and 30s have actually
been pretty stable over the last month.
If you have a look at what the yield
curves done in France, you'll see a
massive bare steepener. front end's been
pretty anchored, hardly moved kind of
the complete opposite story that was
played out here and all the flexibility
has been in the long end of the curve.
So what you see in France is a bare
steepener, bull steeper in the states,
bare steeper in France and what I see
just a basic judgment there is a market
being driven by the Fed in the states
and being driven by fiscal concerns in
France. That's not the same thing. Which
is why we said yesterday, I think we're
on the right line of things here. This
is why I think if you're at the Treasury
at the moment, you're a little bit more
comfortable with the moves you're seeing
than you would be if you were over in
France. They're two very different
stories for me at the moment.
>> And it's the reason why Scott Besson was
saying Japan needs to get its house in
order, not necessarily that the Fed
needs to do yield curve control. So,
there clearly is a recognition of how
global the story is.
>> Just a bit of stability both in France
and the US at least so far this morning.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey, Yahira.
>> Hi, John. We start with that big win for
Alf Alphabet. Shares are rising nearly
6% after a judge ruled the search giant
won't be forced to sell its Chrome
business in a landmark antitrust case.
Google will however be required to share
online search data with its rivals. The
search giant will no longer be able to
make contracts exclusive but can still
pay other companies to feature or
default Google products. Meanwhile, the
US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant will
start interviewing candidates to replace
Fed Chair Jay Powell this Friday. The
Wall Street Journal is reporting that
Bessant will talk to candidates either
in person or by video conference. There
are 11 contenders for the job and
Bessant plans to recommend a finalist to
President Trump. And Petro CEO Magda
Shamriard says the company is in a
favorable position to withstand the US
trade war. She spoke to our own Anarie
Hordern in Sa Paulo. We export very
little little to the United States. So
even if we were Greeks but by the 50%
our export would be easily directed. We
have India, China, Asia, they all demand
a lot our products. So we wouldn't be
very difficult to remmanage.
The biggest market for the Brazilian
energy company. Dr. Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. More from Amarie
potentially tomorrow if she makes it
back from Brazil. Gets some terrible
gigs. Amarie does, doesn't she?
>> She has got really good frequent flyer
miles and she probably has that sort of
like club key where she can go and check
in with the various CEOs of of airlines.
We'll find out.
>> We'll see if she makes it back from S.
Paulo in time for the show tomorrow. Up
next on the program, a legal victory for
Google.
>> The reason people use Google is because
they want to use it. Choice is good for
users. competition is good for the
world. Some of the proposed solutions
are uh far overreaching. Uh we'll see
how it plays out. It played out quite
nicely. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us next. That stock is up by 6%.
[Music]
Thank you, Google. Thank you, Apple.
Thanks to a judge down in Washington DC,
equity futures bouncing back positive by
0.4% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, up by
0.6 in the bond market, looking for some
stability here. A firmer footing for
bond markets worldwide. Yields high by
just two basis points on 10, 428.28 on
30s, 49769 within one basis point
earlier in the session of 5% on 30-year
bond yields. Hammed out by this move in
the commodity market. crude lower today
rolling over in the last 30 minutes or
so. We're down by about 1.8% on Brent
crude. The latest from Reuters Brammo
that maybe OPEC is considering a supply
boost over the weekend.
>> Yeah. And why? I think that that's the
real question. Why would they boost
supply unless they're just continuing to
try to gain market share at a time when
Saudi Arabia is saying now is our
moment. Pump, baby, pump. We're also
seeing Norway saying pump, baby, pump.
Everyone is saying that which raises a
question of the US jail patch and just
who are they gaining share from and that
is going to be uh something a lot of
people are looking at.
>> Brent crude 6792 and Savanis this
morning let's talk about tech a legal
victory for Google.
>> The reason people use Google is because
they want to use it. Choice is good for
users. Competition is good for the
world. Some of the proposed solutions
are uh far overreaching. Uh we'll see
how it plays out.
>> Well, here's the latest this morning.
Now for bet shares rising in the
pre-market by more than 6% after a
federal judge ruled Google does not have
to sell its Chrome browser. With the
latest, here's Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
with more. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. This is
considered to be one of the biggest US
antitrust cases in nearly 30 years. And
as you mentioned, Google was able to
avoid some of the harshest penalties
that were on the table, including the
forced sale of its Chrome business. But
it will be required to share its search
engine data with competitors. That means
that data is going to be used to build
out other search engines including from
rivals like Microsoft and DuckDuck Go.
But it will also be used to build out AI
artificial intelligence models giving a
boost to companies like Perplexity and
Open AI. Now, this is considered to be a
blow for the government and the Trump
administration, which was seeking those
harsher consequences considering that
the court had actually sided with the
government last year when it ruled that
Google had monopolized the market for
search engine and search advertising. We
did hear from the top antitrust enforcer
at the DOJ, Abigail Slater, who said in
a post that the government is weighing
its options going forward here. It was
actually interesting if you looked at
the ruling itself. The judge had
suggested that the government
overstepped its legal authority by
trying to force uh the divevestature of
key assets like Chrome. Now, the
administration did extract some other
concessions, including barring the
company from entering into any exclusive
contracts to be the only search engine
on devices and platforms, though they
are allowed to still pay for that
placement. John, this caps off an about
five-year legal battle that started
under the first Trump administration,
though it isn't quite over. where both
sides have until September 10th to file
some additional filings and submit an
updated remedy plan, but this is being
looked at very closely as a potential
blueprint for other judges as they
consider other big tech cases around the
country.
>> Tyler, before you go, Julian Emanuel is
sitting on set with us and he said the
fact that this was upended highlights
the light regulatory touch of this
administration. Do we have a sense of
whether the administration is going to
back away from any of its efforts to try
to deploy antitrust tools when it comes
to big tech in particular?
Well, it's actually been a really
interesting needle that the
administration has been threading here,
Lisa, because actually antitrust
enforcement was one of those areas that
we heard the Trump administration come
in and say that they were going to
uphold, actually keeping on some of
those cases that started under uh the
FTC's Lena Khan and the Biden
administration as one example. We know
that this is an area that especially
Vice President JD Vance actually
campaigned heavily on perhaps those more
populist messaging that we saw on the
campaign trail when it came to taking on
big tech. So, it's something that we're
watching closely here. But at this
point, it's not totally clear if the
White House is going to back off
considering that we did hear from top
DOJ officials yesterday saying that they
are still going to look at their options
going forward.
>> Tyler Kendall down in DC. More from
Tyler in the next hour. Tyler, thank
you. You kind of touched on this, Bremo,
at the start of the show. The biggest
threat to Google right now is not the
regulator. It's the competition. Let's
get it straight here. That's the biggest
threat to Google at the moment.
>> To me, I wonder is this a bigger win for
Google or a bigger win for Apple, which
keeps its $20 billion of revenue for
just a touch longer while it tries to
revive itself? I mean, to me, Google is
facing an existential threat far greater
than the Department of Justice.
>> Julian's still with us. Julian, let's
breathe some life into this
conversation. Will the winners this time
come from the same places? or to Lisa's
point, do you need to look elsewhere?
>> Well, again, to your point is that, you
know, it wasn't just Google that won in
in the aftermarket yesterday. Clearly,
it was Apple and and there have been
questions about, you know, who's ahead,
who's behind in the competitive
landscape within the Mag 7 itself.
But I think it it it goes back to the
point that when you think about it from
the long term, this is still more a
business of scale and capital formation
and uh you know we have seen an
environment where the the big and the
winners keep winning and simply because
these companies are producing revenues
and earnings and cash flow to fund more
of the investment. Uh so that that cycle
to us, you know, is part of our view uh
of the landscape into next year.
>> As part of your bull case, you talk
about a light regulatory touch and yet
it seems like this is going against the
wishes of the administration and their
touch isn't so light when it comes to
big tech or at least they don't want it
to be so light and this isn't the end of
it. So how do you sort of square those
things? The idea that it's really good
for the rest of the 493 but not so much
for these. Well, again, I think as as
Tyler pointed out, there's a lot of
mixed messages going on. And clearly,
when you think about the announcements
uh about the interlocking between
government and business that we've heard
at various times over these first six or
seven months, it's an open question as
to how it evolves. But I think in the
final analysis, the way you look at the
Trump administration is they're
progrowth, they're pro business, and
certainly the equity market is a very
large part of that.
>> You see it as a complimentary
relationship and not a disruptive one.
>> Uh I think there's plenty of disruption.
Uh there there's lots of questions about
government intervention in business,
government directing of business. Uh but
uh our job right now is to interpret how
the stock market is interpreting that
and at the moment it's it's a you know a
rather profound positive.
>> You are super bullish going into next
year. It's good to catch up with you.
Appreciate it. Thank you Jillian. Julian
Emanuel there of Evercore ISI and if you
have been bullish through most of this
year you've been right that's for sure
based on a bounceback we saw from the
April lows.
>> Bullish on stocks, bullish on the
economy. Bigger question. And when you
take a look at the earnings, the actual
increase that you've seen in sales has
come from inflation, has come from
jacking up prices. And it's come from
job cuts or cutting some of the
expenses. So you look at that and you
wonder, can you have a market that
continues to run another 20 plus% with
an economy that just never catches up.
>> Some tension building there. Big time.
Totally agree. Up next on the program,
Kate McShane of Goldman Sachs on how
retailers are navigating the
uncertainty. Plus, we'll touch base with
Danny with your morning movers as Apple
gets a boost from Google's core victory.
That's all still to come. Live from New
York City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Taking some heat out of the summer rally
in yesterday's session to kick off the
month of September. this morning
bouncing back by 0.5% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.7. Big tilt to Google to
Apple. Daniel will get that in just a
moment. I want to turn to the bond
market. 2-year 10ear and 30-year looking
for some stability here. Yields up again
by two basis points. 42828.
5%'s turned out to be a bit of a ceiling
for the 30-year bond yield. Bumped up
against it a few times. once yesterday
again earlier this morning within 1% one
basis point rather of 5% earlier on in
the session 49769
but the story that keeps on running is
gold 7 days of gains potentially for
gold the longest winning run on a daily
basis for the year so far a move of more
than 30% for 2025
>> where do you find a haven right now if
you're worried about political
dysfunction and inflation in the likes
of Japan that has superseded what we are
seeing in the United States for the
first time in some 40 years. This is a
time when people are increasingly
turning to gold and they are following
all of the central banks reserves which
have been inflating with gold in a
significant way to the detriment of
global bonds around the world. So to me
this is actually the story to watch. How
much is this the arbiter of going
forward how much people have distaste
for developed market sovereign debt.
>> What a move we've seen Lisa 3537 so far
this morning. That's the precious metal
story. Let's get you an equity update
with some single names. Your morning
movers with Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Let me show you those tech
stocks cuz it is what's supporting this
equity market this morning. Google
shares up more than 6% after a judge
ruled that they would not have to get
rid and sell off their Chrome browser as
a part of that monopoly case. It avoids
the harshest penalty for Alphabet. And
yes, they can't have exclusive
contracts. They have to share their
data. But still all a net positive. Also
a net positive for Apple because as part
of this ruling, they can continue to
give payments to Apple to make Chrome
their default browser. Apple's already
given users other options besides Chrome
if they want to change their default
browser. So already taken remedies
there. The judge did say though that
that could be revisited even so we buy
now ask later. 3.4% is the rally we're
seeing pre-market. Finally following up
on some news yesterday when we learned
that Craft Hind would be splitting into
two different companies. It had a really
rough go of it yesterday. For one,
Warren Buffett came out against it.
Shares fell some 6%. This morning,
Morgan Stanley gives an upgrade to
CraftHeind saying that the split is a
good idea and it puts a floor and it on
how much the stock can fall and it helps
support valuations. So, those shares up
1.4%. John
>> Danny with the latest. Danny, appreciate
it. More from Danny in the next hour. On
a radar this morning, China showcasing
his influence with a large-scale
military parade in Beijing attended by
Russia's leader Vladimir Putin and North
Korea's Kim Jong-un. President Trump
then posting a message accusing the
leaders of conspiring against the United
States.
>> Well, the goal was to send the United
States a huge message here, which was we
have weapons that we have not used yet,
hypersonic, supersonic, extraordinary
sonic that we can launch from uh
submarines and from ships that could
potentially expedite a our takeover of
Taiwan and b a push back from whatever
you may do. And this comes at a time
where we are seeing the first ever
meeting of Xihinping, Vladimir Putin and
Kim Jong-un. It's sort of this axis of
others that is over there and it's
really a question of you know what the
message and what the response will be
from the western world.
>> One thing that dictators do really well,
one thing parades like this pretty
phenomenal. Everything's on point. If
you have a good parade in a democracy, I
get concerned because I want everyone
focused on other things.
>> Well, congratulations cuz we had a
terrible parade here in the United
States. Not a terrible parade, but it
wasn't like that. you know, people were
humans. They weren't sort of all to a
tea in terms of how they march and how
many tanks and how many other missiles
and how orchestrated it could be and
people all saying things in unison. We
didn't have that in Washington DC and
maybe that was what some people would
like. But here's the question. Is this
more uh for an optical type of show or
is this actual? Is this the type of
weaponry that could really put China on
an equal footing with the United States
from a military perspective and
demonstrate their prowess on an
international stage as Xihinping tries
to be the international statesman? Or is
this a show trying to uh force the
United States's hand?
>> A more serious tone. I think it used to
be very much the former. There's a
greater concern now it's the latter and
that's problematic and I think we have
to take that more and more seriously in
the months and years to come. And this
is the reason why people are focused on
AI and how much the race between the US
and China because those weapons look
lovely. But the real issue is the AI
fight is very much intertwined with the
military fight and the new frontiers for
warfare.
>> That's the latest on China. We'll bring
you an update there a little bit later
this morning. I want to turn to the
latest down in Washington DC. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson will
begin interviewing candidates to replace
Fed chair J Pal on Friday. The Wall
Street Journal reporting that 11
contenders remain in the mix. the
Treasury Secretary is going to sit down
with a handful of them and then
ultimately shorten down this list and
hand it off to the president.
>> To me, I was surprised it hadn't started
already. My takeaway wasn't, "Oh my
goodness, it's so early because the
replacement has to come at some point
early next year. This is almost on a
schedule that would make sense." The
bigger thing to me was a it's not taking
place uh just of yet. He still has 11
candidates. His name is not among them.
And the idea that we're still talking
about the same story indicates that
maybe they haven't been moving quite as
quickly as some people had expected.
>> I agree with you. I agree with you on
that. I think we're still on Besson's
timeline and not on the president's.
This could still take a while. I'd also
say that the Treasury Secretary, I
imagine, wants to bring a lot of
credibility to this process so that the
markets really believe in whoever is
ultimately selected to be the next Fed
chair. I think it takes some pressure
off the Treasury Secretary and the Fed
chair going into September 17th. That
will be the last meeting I think for
Chairman Pal to provide some forecasts
without the disruption of knowing who
the next Fed chair is. After that, it's
game on. I'm going to be looking for
guidance into 26, not from the Fed
chair, but whoever the person is that a
president selects
>> and what the criteria are. Are they
looking for someone who will air on the
side of hotter inflation uh in terms of
hotter growth or are they going to heir
on the side of credibility in markets
and tamping down the 30-year the 10-year
yields? That's going to be crucial at a
time where uh Scott Besson has said the
Fed the Fed is should be an independent
body, but they've also made a lot of
mistakes. He keeps repeating that in the
way he uh he messages this.
>> The process is well underway. I want to
turn to this story from Alphabet. The
big news in the equity market this
morning. Shares surging after notching a
major win at the biggest US antitrust
trial in almost three decades. A judge
ruling Google would be required to share
online search data with its rivals, but
won't have to sell its web browser. That
stock is up this morning by more than
6%. Let's turn to the consumer. Kate
McShane, a US retail analyst at Goldman
Sachs, writing this. We have seen
growing concerns around the health of
the US consumer. However, we expect a
combination of job growth, easing
interest rates, and more benign
essential spending to translate into
resilient spending power. Kate joins us
now for more. Kate, welcome to the
program. Let's just build on your
outlook. We've seen a market start to
believe in a pickup in this economy. Are
you hearing the same thing from the
companies you follow?
>> I think we are. I think there is some
hesitation going into the back half of
the year in terms of what some of the
higher prices we could see as a result
of tariffs could mean for the consumer.
But as we enter into 2026, and we
published on this yesterday, we do
expect to see an accelerating cash flow
for the consumer, especially with that
middle inome consumer. How much Kate has
the expansion or the rosier outlooks
from the retailers come from the idea of
more robust demand from consumers? And
how much has come from the fact that
they can raise prices and cut staff or
cut costs around the corners and maybe
deploy a little AI, deploy a little
something else?
[Music]
>> I do think there is a strong underlying
demand that's uh underpinning the sales
that we're hearing and seeing from
retailers. What we've heard for the last
couple of years is that while the
consumer is being choiceful, they do
respond to newness and to innovation.
We've heard so far that back to school
has been very strong as well. And back
to school is usually a very good future
indicator for how holiday will turn out.
And so I do think that there is a a
fairly healthy consumer that is
underpinning the the demand for these
for these discretionary sales. How much
Kate is this affected by some of the
uncertainty that we've seen? And there
was this expectation that heading into
the end of the year there would be more
certainty around policy, more certainty
about uh you know what was coming down
the pike and now we have the question
about the locality of some of the
tariffs. We have questions around uh
what is going to happen with the budget
deficit, a government shutdown. I mean
is that basically uh not on the minds of
a lot of the executives that you're
talking to there?
Oh, I think the uncertainty is is
definitely something all of our
companies uh that we cover have spoken
to. I think there is a lot of
uncertainty in terms of how things will
play out again in in the back half of
the year. I don't think we've seen as
much fear from the consumer though. We
haven't heard as much of pull forward in
anticipation of potentially higher
prices in the back half of the year. Um
everything seems somewhat normal when it
comes to the consumer pattern of
spending. Kate, I want to just uh ask,
we've been talking all morning about the
proliferation of artificial intelligence
and how a number of different companies
are using it and how it is migrating
from the Magnificent 7 to the rest of
the names, the index and beyond. Are you
hearing about tangible ways that
retailers are using the latest
technology to either facilitate sales,
reduce costs, or even just improve
processes?
Yes, I would say within the last couple
of quarters, we have definitely seen the
narrative around AI uh accelerate uh in
terms of how these companies are
thinking about the future. Uh we do hear
it in the context of efficiency, I
think, a little bit more than than
anything else. Um think supply chain, uh
think e-commerce and and product
descriptions. There's a lot um of things
that they're talking about kind of early
on here, but I think we're going to hear
a lot more in the next couple of
quarters of again how it's um improving
efficiency at all these companies.
>> Kate, we know we've got a busy morning
ahead of you. So, thanks for making some
time for us. Kate McShane there of
Goldman Sachs had a busy Goldman Sachs
annual retailing conference as they get
set up for that throughout today.
>> Yeah. How do they give guidance? I mean,
honestly, how do they understand how to
even measure tariffs that may be taken
on, may be put off? I mean, the idea
that the court delayed any kind of
implementation of the decision till
October 14th raises a real question.
After October 14th, do companies,
suppliers go to the government and say,
"Where's our money back? How do we just
continue with our lives? Uh how much are
we looking at them actually expanding
overseas programs?" There are t tactical
questions that a lot of these guys
probably don't have answers to.
>> This is not an event, it's a process. I
keep going back to that. This is not an
event, it's a process. It takes time. It
takes a long long time to play out. So
what do we know so far? Basically what
we know so far from import prices is
that we haven't seen the people shipping
this stuff into America drop their
prices aggressively. That's not
happened. What we've seen in end
consumer prices if we haven't seen this
passed on aggressively. That's not
happened yet. Maybe it does, maybe it
won't. I don't know. What we've seen so
far is companies have taken a lot of
this on margin just based on the
economic data. Very surface level
analysis. What I don't know is what
happens next. Because at this point,
you'd have to imagine these retailers
are now negotiating with their foreign
suppliers to try and work something out.
If they can't, they then need to gauge
the strength of the US economy, whether
they can actually pass on price hikes or
not. And if they can't, they then got to
figure out, okay, what do we do? Go over
market share, go after it, Walmart,
maybe if you're in that position, you
have that strength, or do we have to cut
costs? And if we have to cut costs and
we start seeing this show up in labor,
then you've got to be much much more
concerned about what happens next in
this economy.
>> I paid $4 for a box of pencils, and this
is really the issue. I was going through
the list thinking, what do I need to buy
for the back to school supplies and the
household need? And it was a pretty big
tally, and I'm not going to not buy
pencils, right? So, had what point is
this uh sort of the staples that people
have to buy versus some indication of
strength going forward? That's also what
I'm looking to parse through. How much
are these necessities? Essentially, you
need your binders. You need to collect
your homework. You need to actually
write it down. You know, you need to
actually do it. Okay, I'm just
>> This doesn't sound like this is about
the program. It's about something else.
But I'm totally there with you.
>> Look, this is going to take time to play
out. What frustrates me at the moment is
how political the analysis has become.
You're either for the president, against
the president. For me, just stay
open-minded about the situation. We
haven't seen this ever before in modern
history. The kind of move the president
has made in post-war history at least to
aggressively hike tariffs in the way
that he has. I don't know how this plays
out. I can just observe how it's playing
out in real time and just acknowledge
that I've got to be open-minded about
what the future holds here because no
one really knows.
>> Muhammad Yarian made a point that really
stands out in my mind and it was a while
ago where he said, "Remember when you
used to go to the store and you would
get a product and it would say suggested
retail price 99, suggested uh retail
price $1.99." You don't see that
anymore. The whole idea of stable prices
has gone away which leaves open the
possibility of volatility and inflation
and real-time price increases that is
very different than what we've seen in
the past
>> in the stock market this morning. If you
are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equity futures are bouncing
back by 0.5%. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's check in
with you Hierra for more. Hey you Hyra.
>> Hi John. Fed Governor Lisa Cook's lawyer
blasted President Trump's move to ouster
Singh. His accusations are based on
nothing more than cut and paste
allegations of mortgage fraud made on
social media. He doubled down on
arguments he presented last week, saying
Trump lacked valid grounds to fire Cook
for cause, a key issue in the suit,
challenging her dismissal. Meanwhile,
Jane Street pulled in a record more than
$10 billion in net trading revenue in
the second quarter, beating out all of
Wall Street's biggest banks. With
trading revenue from JP Morgan trailing
behind by just over a billion dollars,
sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
Jane Street logged a record 17.3 billion
in trading revenue during the first half
of this year. And Hawaii's Kiloa volcano
resumed erupting yesterday, shooting
lava 330 ft into the sky. All of the
lava has been contained and hasn't
threatened homes or buildings. Kilawea
is one of the world's most active
volcanoes. This is the 32nd time it has
erupted since December. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour in about 30 minutes from now.
Up next on the program, undoing
diplomacy.
A lot of countries are backing away from
their close relationships with the
United States. We're going to wake up 5
years from now. We're going to realize
that we've just undid 20 years of of
diplomacy uh that have sort of pushed
back against the China world. It's it's
a problem. We'll get to that problem
next on the program. We'll catch up with
Joanna Chua of City from New York. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Equities
bouncing back by 0.5% on the S&P 500
driven by gains for Google for Apple.
The NASDAQ 100 up by 0.7. That's the
price action in the equity market under
Savylvanas this morning. undoing
diplomacy.
>> A lot of countries are backing away from
their close relationships with the
United States. We're seeing a situation
where China is getting is becoming an
attractive option because it's not the
United States right now. We're going to
wake up 5 years from now. We're going to
realize that we've just undid 20 years
of of diplomacy uh that have sort of
pushed back against the China world.
It's it's a problem. So, here's the
latest this morning. Chinese President
Xi Jinping hosting Russia's Vladimir
Putin and North Korea's Kim Jong-un in
Beijing for a once a decade military
parade. Joining us now to discuss is
Bloomberg's Minman Lo. Minman, welcome
back to the program. I'll tell you the
message that's coming from America so
far this morning. This from the
president to please give my warmest
regards to Putin and Kim Jong-un as you
conspire against the United States of
America. What's the response from Asia
this morning?
Well, President C didn't mention America
at all in his speech. And I mean, you
think about it, President C's speech is
probably probably drafted a long time
ago. He's unlikely to change it to
respond to a tweet from President Trump.
But uh Trump was asking whether China
will mention the US at all and its role
in aiding China during World War II. And
President Xi in a speech, of course, he
thanked the Chinese veterans for their
sacrifices. Uh but he also made a nod to
foreign countries. Didn't name drop the
US though. He mentioned foreign
countries help uh in helping China
secure its freedom and its uh freedom
from World War II. Uh and of course
what's unsaid is the imagery you get out
of this, right? Because Kim Jong-un and
Putin flanking presidency. Some analysts
have called these an axis of upheaval.
And it's not just these two countries.
You have uh the leader of Iran, the
leader of Myanmar as well. some of the
most sanctioned countries present at
this gathering of at least 26 leaders
who are there and interesting as well
you look at the guest list obviously US
and UK are not present there are only
two European leaders uh Serbia and
Slovakia Slovak is there but then there
is all of these Asian leaders as well
many of the Southeast Asian leaders
including Vietnam uh Malaysia President
PBO he was supposed to attend the SEO
summit over the weekend he didn't go
because of the protest happening in
Indonesia and he caught a lastminute
flight to make it for the parade and it
shows you that yes, China has this
influence especially over the Azan
countries who continue to rely heavily
on China on trade and they're perhaps a
little bit agnostic to the ideological
overtones here uh and the image of that
you know the the strong man leaders
standing together on stage uh on that
days above the portrait of Maong at the
Tanaman Square.
>> Minman great reporting in the last 24
hours appreciate the coverage. Min low
there of Bloomberg out of Beijing to
extend the conversation. Joanna Chuer,
the chief Asia economist and head of
emerging market economics at City joins
us now for more. Joanna, good morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> Thanks for being here again. It's been
about a year, I think. So, welcome back.
>> Let's talk about China. We cano avoid
the politics if we can. We want to know
what's happening with that economy. The
Treasury Secretary has sat in your seat,
that very chair, and talked about China
rebalancing, needing China to rebalance.
You seeing any rebalancing at all?
>> Well, so far, no. In fact, if you look
at the first half, GDP growth in China,
net exports contributed an even higher
share of GDP growth, about 32% versus
last year, 30%. But hey, contributing
30% or more than 30% of your growth for
the last year and a half for the second
largest economy. That's very challenging
for the rest of the world. Now, the hope
is we've got the 15-year plan coming up
in October. Maybe there will be some
kind of rumblings about rebalancing, but
at the moment, it's still very early
days. There seems to be some signs of
shift towards supply side reform, you
know, anti-involution, trying to cut
excess capacity, but you know, domestic
demand still has a lot of challenges.
>> So, just to put a sort of bow on this,
are you seeing anything in any of the
Chinese policies that would fight
deflation? Well, there's been obviously
a lot of news coming up, you know, with
these uh kind of lithium mining kind of
being shut down. You know, obviously
there's been some, you know, looks like
there's some talk about capacity cuts,
instructions from companies not to kind
of, you know, have a kind of an kind of
continued price war. So, there seems to
be symbolically early signs. Uh, but
again, we have to see first in the data.
It's still very early days. I mean, I
think the last CPI data came out, there
was a little bit of a again some signs
of a bounce in certain items, but again,
overall, inflation is still extremely
low. When we look at the optics of this
new alliance, or not new, but sort of
reiterating the alliance between
Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong-un and
Xiinping, and then all of the people in
attendance, do you see that in some of
the export numbers? The exports really
are coming from China and going much
more so to all of these countries that
are now emboldened friends.
>> Well, well, I mean, beyond I mean,
Russia, North Korea is not really the
major trading partner. I think the very
strong signs we've seen in the last
couple of years is really this dramatic
increase in China's exports to the
global south. And it's been happening
over the last couple of years, it's
increased a lot to Latin America. It's
increased a lot even to Africa and also
parts of Asia like Azion. Uh
unfortunately, what that's happened is
it's not just exports have been diverted
to those countries, but China's trade
surplus has mostly come from the global
south. So there is a question about how
long can you keep this going? what is
the absorption capacity of the global
south to be running very large trade
deficits like for example I think the
image of this Shanghai cooper
cooperation summit and Modi there I mean
there you know if you look at India and
and China's relationship economic
relationship India runs a large trade
deficit with China uh and then it runs a
trade surplus with the US now how do we
rebalance that relationship economically
when strategic kind of geopolitical
relationships are always changing is is
obviously something that's going to be a
challenge
>> are any countries pushing back and not
just the countries that you've labeled
already, you've named. I wonder if
Europe is starting to push back as well.
We've had this conversation now for a
number of months that this overcapacity
has to be eaten by someone. Either it's
the Chinese or it's the people they
export to.
>> No, look, ch Europe has already been
pushing back. I mean, we've had already
this news of this kind of tariff on EVs
and you know, we've seen that news.
Obviously, US is pushing back the most
aggressively. Uh EU is doing it in a
more targeted rather than a blanket way
because obviously they have a more kind
of rules-based mechanism. you do see a
lot of kind of even smaller countries
kind of filing WTO complaints but we
have to acknowledge the fact that since
China is the largest trading partner for
most countries uh there's a little bit
of asymmetric leverage here when it
comes to bargaining positions so it's
always going to be a bit of a challenge
and though countries will lodge
complaints or do it on a more targeted
basis I think overall there's a limit uh
to you know what they can do that's why
these trade surpluses uh that China is
running with these countries continue to
grow
>> as you know the US has pushed back
aggressively against trans shipping
tried to get these countries to put
their tariffs up. Now, are you seeing
any signs of that rebalance at all so
far?
>> No. No. So, actually what's happened
now, it's ironic because at the start of
the year, everyone thought, you know,
Trump was campaigning 60% tariff on
China, 10% on everyone else. So, we
thought, oh, there's going to be a very
wide wedge and it will drive production
relocation to other countries. Now, it's
coming out that the tariff differential
is not really as wide as people earlier
thought. In fact, ironically, India now
gets a larger a higher tariff
effectively than China. And then this
whole trans shship shipment thing, I
think there's been some kind of talk
about pressure on Mexico. Obviously,
Mexico has a lot more closer
relationship with the US. So there, you
know, there's some talk that they might
put a tariff wall on China in their
upcoming budget. But for Azan is very,
very complicated. Now, what we're
hearing is that it looks like US is
pushing Azan particularly, there was
some news about Thai officials being
told that they have to raise their
domestic value added content in their
exports to at least 60%. in order to
avail of their 19% tariff uh kind of
rate. Otherwise, they could get slap
trap trend shipment and that's going to
be a challenge because a lot of
countries have very integrated supply
chain and some of that foreign content
obviously comes from China.
>> Can we do this more than once a year?
Let's do it like try for twice a year.
Let's make it happen. Absolutely. It's
good to see you here in New York. Thanks
for being here. Joanna Chew there of
city. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance is just around the corner.
In just a moment, we'll catch up with
John Bilton of JP Morgan.
[Music]
The bond market is telling you not just
here but everywhere else that it's
worried about the path that we're on.
>> We have seen fiscal concerns pretty much
across the board.
>> If inflation is going higher, that means
the yields are going higher.
>> Things will calm down over the course of
the next couple of months.
>> That's really what's important for the
US economy is getting those long-term
interest rates to begin to trend lower.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> It's a much calmer second day to
September trading live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Good
morning to you all. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
with equities bouncing back by 0.5% on
the S&P by 0.8 on the NASDAQ 100. Some
antitrust relief for Google helping out
that stock and helping out Apple too.
That's the story for equities. In the
bond market, things just settled down a
touch. 30-year bond yield short of 5%
49748 up a single basis point 10's up
too to 402828
42828 rather that's the bond market
situation as for the week ahead some
economic data for you job openings jolts
a little bit later on this morning look
out for that then we get ADP and claims
tomorrow then it's on to Friday it's the
payrolls report just what is the state
of the US economy so let's talk about
that let's talk about one single name
Macy's raising its outlook for the US
consumer just how dicey are things right
now because this stock is up 4.9%.
>> And we just heard from Kate McShane that
the outlooks over at the Goldman Sachs
Retailing Conference are much more
positive than they were just a couple of
months ago. The question is from where?
How much is this just raising the bar a
touch after it was lowered dramatically
because of the tariffs on April 2nd?
When you take a look at what Macy's is
talking about, yes, they upgraded their
forecasts and they beat expectations,
but it still is below where they had
came out where they came out with
projections before that April 2nd
announcement. So, a real question here,
have we reset our expectations? Where is
the strength coming from? And how much
is Macy's just charging a lot of money
for the blue Mercury products and
getting a real boost from it?
>> I think it's a little bit of everything,
especially the latter. Their stock is
now up by close to 9%. I'm allowed to
mention a subcomponent of the ISM. You
are allowed to do that. Okay. New orders
bouncing back. Forward-looking
indicator. If you wanted to sprinkle of
good news in the last 24 hours may be a
sign that perhaps this economy is
gearing up to bounce back. Do we see
that in payrolls on Friday? Absolutely
no idea. But that's a story in this
equity market of the past month.
>> If you want to take that sub component
component and create a story, there's an
issue of confidence and this
reinvestment that a lot of people were
talking about as a sneaky bullcase as
Stuart Kaiser put it. Or there's this
idea that maybe a lot of companies which
press the pause button in the wake of
the tariffs to try to work through their
inventory are now empty and have to
reorder and re-up and how much is that
part of the story which also will give a
boost to the economy. Either way, this
is a very complicated moment and you
might see everyone trying to struggle
with it as they try to explain why is
the bond market selling off? How much
does this market have legs? It is
because it's at a tipping point for a
host of different themes. Whether it's
the AI theme, whether it's the economy
theme, or whether it's political
dysfunction around the world,
>> bond market selling off this morning
just a little bit. Yields higher by a
couple of basis points across the curve.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
John Bilton of JP Morgan as the global
bond selloff hit stocks. Libby Candra of
Pimco as Fed share JPAL interviews, or
rather the Fed share interviews begin.
And Bloomberg's Jamie Rush as European
bond yields hit multi-year highs. We
begin this hour with stocks bouncing
back and bonds finding a firmer footing.
John Bilton of JP Morgan writing, "We
see US treasuries in a range of 450 to
375 and favor a modest overweight to
duration. These steepening bias in the
US probably persists given concerns over
Fed independence." John joins us now for
more. John, good morning. Good to see
you. The bond market moves settled down,
at least so far this morning, but they
were vicious at times in yesterday's
session, particularly in places like
France and the UK. Anything to be
concerned about?
>> Well, I think there's a couple of things
going on here. I mean, first and
foremost, remember which month we're in.
This is September. It's back to school
for the kids. It's back to new issuance
for the bond markets. And it's always a
big issuance month. I mean, we saw a 50
billion euro set of issuance coming out
of Europe. But we had a UK bond issuance
in the 10-year note that was actually
reasonably well subscribed. 40%
international involvement there. So,
this is not a bond market which is not
functioning. It's a bond market that's
repricing. And what it's repricing to
are some of the fiscal risks. We know
about some of the political turmoil in
France. We know about some of the fiscal
concerns in the UK and this is all
contributing to this you know general
feeling of of concern and within bond
markets generally of course here in the
US question marks around sort of fiscal
impact impact of inflation also having
an effect there and that's pushing the
back end of curves up to new highs.
>> Do you think it's back to school for
fiscal authorities? Is this enough to
force corrective action in places like
the UK, like France? Well, I think you
know we we now know that we're going to
get a a budget on the 26th of November
in the UK. We know that there are issues
in terms of you know balancing spending
and investment in the UK. Um so I think
there's a number of things going on
here. I think first and foremost we're
repricing to realize that the UK does
have this persistent inflationary
problem because of supply side
constraints which is a battle for the
Bank of England. And secondly it's a
question of how does the UK invest for
growth without upsetting the bond
market. So, I think that there is this
fiscal repricing going on. What gives me
encouragement, though, despite us being
at the highest level of 30-year bond
yields in the UK since 1998. What does
give me comfort is the market continues
to function. I'd also throw something
else in there, which is the technicals
here. Remember, in Europe, we've seen
big changes to things like the Dutch
pension uh demand for European bonds.
We're seeing repricing continuing to
come through from liabilitydriven
investors in terms of how they structure
their investment platforms. So, not all
of this is about fiscal. Some of it is
about market mechanics.
>> If the best thing you can say about a
bond market is it didn't break, then you
wonder how positive a person can
actually be. I mean, are you actually
bullish on long-term bonds? Are you just
trying to say, look, it's not exactly,
you know, hands up in the air, flames
behind us, the world is burning down,
Liz trust type of moment, even though
yields are high. Which is it, bullish or
just let's ratchet back some of the more
crisis speak?
>> I think it's more the latter. And I
mean, look at the quote that um John put
on the screen for me where we're talking
about the continued steepening bias. We
continue to expect to see that because
we do have inflation uncertainty. In our
work this year in our long-term capital
market assumptions program, we've looked
at the average level of inflation and we
expect it to be kind of close to central
bank targets, maybe a touch above. But
what we do think is more inflation
volatility. forces like technology, the
energy market pulling it down. Forces
like fiscal overreach in places pushing
it up and so we'll swing back and forth
between points where we see a little bit
more inflation coming through. Investors
are going to demand more term risk
premium as a result. If we look at that
in return terms, sure, we've got more
volatility, but markets are repricing to
reflect that. So, it's not necessarily a
bullish call on bonds to be clear here,
but it's an expectation that we're
seeing a functioning market repric to
set the appropriate level of return
given the fiscal risks that are out
there.
>> Does it make sense to hear people
bullish on risk assets in this type of
setting at a time where you could get
governments being forced to cut back
spending in order to tame some of the uh
long bond jitters that we have seen
recently and there's a sort of valuation
concern with bonds offering yields. I
mean, at what point is there a
contradiction here?
>> Well, let's look at the facts. I mean,
who's pulling back fiscally? I mean, the
US have just announced 2.7 trillion, of
which 700 roughly is being channeled
towards trying to get companies to join
them with capex commitments. So, I'd
actually go the other way. And then look
at Germany, of course, 11% of GDP being
committed in fiscal spending. Now,
Germany does have the fiscal space. So,
yes, fiscal is a big deal. So, I don't
see a reason why we should be thinking
about the economy going into reverse. In
fact, I'd be more concerned if bond
markets were actually um seeing curves
invert because that's usually the signal
that something bad's going to happen.
So, the steepening to me, I just say
hold your nerve. There's a lot of good
reasons to be sticking with risk assets.
Earnings are turning. Sure, valuations
are toppy, but generally firms are
performing and they're delivering cash
back to their shareholders.
>> So, it sounds like you're expecting a
reaceleration in the economy. the US and
Europe, the rest of the world or
specific regions.
>> Look, we're generally bullish on the
outlook. We the data that have come
through in the middle part of this year,
especially if we look at the soft data,
of course, always forward-looking.
Expectations have come down. Consumers
are kind of not very happy about the
world. The reality is the US economy is
moving along in a reason in a reasonable
way. We expect the hard data perhaps to
dip a little bit in the second half. Um,
but we do expect a reaceleration next
year. There's, you know, regulatory
easing to come, huge fiscal spending to
come, but more importantly, it's capex.
We see this capex story coming through
strongly. And then look at Europe. We
have significant commitments out of
Germany, uh, particularly out of the
German corporate base, and we do expect
spending to come through. Yes, there's
political risks. This is Europe. There's
always political risks. 20 countries in
a block, average election cycle of four
to five years, you're going to get an
election every quarter. So, we get used
to the noise in the background. So there
are these risks out there, but the
underlying growth in the economy we feel
is there and we feel it's reasonably.
>> If you're a US-based investor though,
are you going to allocate to well to
those political risks in Europe or just
keep the money at home? At the start of
the year, there was a thought that maybe
the money would go abroad. What about
now?
>> Well, I think we got to look at a couple
of things because, you know, we can't be
bullish on everything. So the one thing
that we do see as having some threat to
it is the dollar. So if you're looking
at the dollar potentially taking it on
the chin as you know fiscal experiments
take place and dollar weakening some
over the um quarters and years ahead
which is our core expectation you're
going to get a currency tailwind. Add to
that the fact the Fed are likely to be
tilting more doubbish uh you know
basically following the labor market but
also with changes of staff in the FOMC.
ECB are pretty much done on in on in on
taking rates down and if anything we've
got this fiscal thrust coming through in
Europe. So we'd expect Euro dollar to
have a fair value of somewhere around
one and a quarter over the longer run.
So you get that currency tailwind that
removes one of the big impediments I
think for international investors
looking at Europe and that's been the
worry that they're going to underperform
on the equity side and get hit with the
currency. You take one of those away and
bear in mind since the Euro zone crisis
we've seen somewhere in the region of
400 billion of outflows from European
stocks. We've reversed maybe a tenth of
that. So to get back to you know a fair
allocation we do see some upside to
Europe for international investors.
>> Your bull cases are sounding so bullish.
we see some upside understanding that
there is always political dysfunction.
It is Europe after all. I just wonder
how much the alternative is just gold. I
mean you talk about the idea of a
weakening in dollar. You talk about this
question of political dysfunction in
Europe. How much do you see ongoing
gains for gold and is that the new
reserve currency?
>> Well, I wouldn't go as far as to say
it's the new reserve currency per se.
It's probably the one that's the oldest
we've got apart from perhaps blocks of
salt or carry shells.
The reality is look I'd have owning gold
it's it's been on a tear and of course
it's been on a tear because of the
uncertainty because of concern about
debasing of fiat currencies and I think
that that is a theme that's going to be
with us for a while. So you know we
don't see pullbacks necessarily in gold.
I'd watch the technicals and watch for
crowding because you know it's a market
that can whip around very very quickly.
But generally when we look at our
outlook for gold we're seeing returns
well above inflation over the long run.
So, we would see it as having a sensible
place in a portfolio for a long-term
investor.
>> Amazing move so far this year. More than
30% higher for 2025 for gold. Up again
this morning by a third of 1%.
>> Yeah. Maybe blocks of salt and cockle
shells will be next because maybe we'll
go back to the old thing. You know,
>> I don't have a block of gold, but I've
got a block of salt at home in the
kitchen. Yeah. Himalayan rock salt just
sitting on the side.
>> Ah, you totally do. You shave it and you
absolutely shave it.
>> Just sits there looking pretty. You
think I cook? Come on, Lisa. John, it's
good to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Thank you, sir. John Ben at JP Morgan.
Can I just say what John just said there
was they're not going to plan to cut
back fiscal. What about those two
holidays over in France?
>> Oh, in France.
>> Yeah, that's going to change everything.
>> I think he was talking about Germany
specifically.
>> Yeah, but you know there's going to be,
you know, a contraction in French
holidays.
>> Still negotiating that, aren't we?
>> Yeah. Well, let's see. That could
actually change the financial picture.
>> Could do. You don't want to annoy the
French the protests quite violently,
>> particularly the farmers.
>> They're going to be picking in the uh
>> what John's playing nicely.
>> All right.
>> Shouldn't joke about these things.
>> Sorry. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhierra. Hey,
Yahra.
>> Hi, John. We're seeing shares of Macy's
soaring nearly 10% in the pre-market.
The retailer raised its annual outlook
and reported its best comparable sales
growth in 12 quarters. It's the latest
sign that consumers are still spending
despite concerns about inflation and
tariffs. Macy's now expects net sales of
as much as $24 billion for the fiscal
year, up slightly from its previous
guidance. Meanwhile, gold hitting a new
all-time high earlier for a second
straight day. Investors are boosting
bets on an interest rate cut and using
the commodity to seek safety from the
sell-off in bonds and equities. Gold
continues to be one of the best
performing major commodities, having
risen more than a third this year. And
sticking with commodities, oil prices
are slipping after Reuters reported that
OPEC Plus will consider a fresh round of
supply increases when the group meets
this weekend. Most analysts and traders
expected it to stand pat on production
for October, pausing a long run of
increases. So a surprise there. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes. Up next on a program,
President Trump versus Governor Cook.
>> This really has nothing to do with the
Fed. It has much to do with public
officials. If you're going to be in
charge of the Federal Reserve, damn, you
better sure know how to fill out a
mortgage application. That conversation
up next with Libby Canrell of PIMCO live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Equities
bouncing back on the S&P 500, up by 0.5
on the NASDAQ 100, up by 0.7 thanks to
these two names right here, Google and
Apple. Some antitrust relief for
Alphabet and Apple will still get paid.
Alphabet up by 6%, Apple up by 4% this
morning.
>> Who's the biggest winner? On one hand,
Google, which faces other existential uh
crises, might live to fight another day
with some of their uh with some of their
applications. They don't have to sell
Chrome, but Apple and just to keep that
$20 billion infusion going. Could you
imagine what it would look like if they
didn't get that money on an ongoing
basis?
>> It removes a hangover for sure, but
ultimately, as we've both discussed, the
real risk for Google is from the
competition, from the emerging
competitors. It's not from the
regulator.
>> My father is best friends with Chat GBT.
I think a lot of people it's going
really well. Although maybe not for my
mom, but I do think that it's really
interesting to see that he chat GBPTs
everything and I don't think he's alone.
>> Not sure your dad wanted you to share
that this morning if you're watching.
Okay. Under surveillance this morning,
President Trump versus Governor Cook.
>> This really has nothing to do with the
Fed. It has much to do with public
officials. If you're going to be in
charge of the Federal Reserve, damn, you
better sure know how to fill out a
mortgage application. And boy, it's
awfully weird that she potentially saved
a lot of money by making so-called
clerical errors. Jerome Pal, he's got an
answer for why he's not coming out and
saying this is bad. He's destroying the
credibility of the Fed by not saying
that mortgage fraud is bad. So, here's
the latest this morning. Federal Reserve
Governor Lisa Kirk's lawyer blasting
President Trump's quote cut and paste
allegations saying she never committed
mortgage fraud. For the latest, here's
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Morning,
Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. So, in
this latest filing, we're really seeing
Cook's lawyers double down on the
arguments that we heard from them on
Friday when I spent all day at the
federal courthouse for the first hearing
in this case. But they're perhaps
putting a little bit more of a finer
point on what they are arguing that
President Trump doesn't have sufficient
cause to fire Cook. And we got really
what felt like the most explicit denial
to date that the allegations of mortgage
fraud against her are not true. Now, I
wanted to highlight two points that we
saw in these filings. One is that her
lawyers say that the mortgages in
question were actually on forms
submitted to the White House and the US
Senate during her vetting process and
that this all has to do with her private
conduct before she was a Fed governor.
We had heard during the hearing her
lawyers argue that if there were
discrepancies on these mortgage
applications, it perhaps has to do with
clerical errors and that Cook did not
intend to deceive anyone. Now, you
mentioned that copy and paste line. It
does appear that her lawyers are trying
to paint this as being politically
motivated, likely of reference to how
the administration, led by FHFA Director
Bill Py, have highlighted these other
allegations of mortgage fraud against
officials that might not always agree
with the president, like New York
Attorney General Leticia James and
California Senator Adam Schiff. Now, you
ask the administration and we heard a
little glimpse of it there from the FH
FHFA director Baldi, but they're arguing
that it is up to the president to
determine what amounts to sufficient
cause and that they actually gave Cook
sufficient time to respond to the
allegations. They point to the 5 days
between President Trump calling for her
to resign and then posting her
termination on Truth Social, something
that Cook's lawyers in these filings
double down on does not amount to due
process. John, if we really learned
anything new from these court filings
yesterday, it's really that we're not
going to get a ruling on this temporary
restraining order that Cook is seeking
by the end of the week. And that's
because the judge said that the
administration now has until Thursday to
give their own response.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. With us
here in New York, Libby Cantrol of Pimco
Libby, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> September 17th, will she be there?
>> Uh, will Lisa Cook be there? I mean, I I
I we think so. Uh, we expect so. I mean
I think obviously this is how the court
will adjudicate this uh is sort of
anyone's question but assuming that um
the court has not sort of definitively
decided whether this is fraud uh we
believe that she will most likely be
there. I think a bigger question in some
ways is will the council of economic
advisors chairman my be there and he of
course is uh going to be sitting for
sitting for his uh senate confirmation
hearing tomorrow. Uh we think that is
quite aggressive. So Lisa Cook most
likely will be there. Again, sort of
barring any sort of court developments.
Um but but uh Chairman Myron probably
will not be there.
>> How much is it going to be a contentious
fight with Steven Myron in those
hearings tomorrow versus just paving the
way? Come on down.
>> Yeah. Well, I think we've talked about
this before. I mean, the Senate
confirmation process is not necessarily
peruncter. I think the market sort of
just assumes that whomever the president
any president uh nominates they'll
likely get confirmed. And I think for
for in most cases that is true. But for
this particular position in this
particular context we do think that um
any sort of Fed nominee is going to be
really questioned but by Democrats of
course uh but also by Republicans. And
remember that the first step towards
Senate confirmation is through the
Senate Banking Committee. And you know
that again might just sort of seem like
a bunch of kind of mumbo process mumbo
jumbo but it's actually very important
because uh assuming no Democrats vote
for uh say chair chairman Myron for for
Fred governor that means that he cannot
lose even one Republican vote in order
to advance to the the full Senate floor.
So this so tomorrow will be very uh very
important. We do expect that he will get
confirmed, but again, probably not in
this very accelerated time frame,
meaning that he'll probably, you know,
the the earliest he'll be seated for
that phone is probably October.
>> The controversy over the Fed has sucked
up a lot of oxygen and a lot of time.
And I wonder how much we ought to be
putting to the idea that we could be
facing a government shutdown in a couple
of days. And I will say or a couple of
weeks, and I say this at a time where
globally we're talking about government
dysfunction, how much it could be
affecting some of the fiscal worries in
markets. Are you expecting us to
actually shut down again? I mean, is
this actually a worry that we have to
focus on?
>> Well, I think that the the market is
pretty desensitized because there have
been so many head fakes around
government shutdowns, around debt
sealing fights. And so, I think it's um
sort of understandable that the that the
market sort of to even this discussion,
but we do think the risk for a shutdown
is higher this time around than it has
been in probably several years. And
that's because just the the friction
between the Republicans and the
Democrats, the requirement, remember
that in order to fund the government, uh
you need at least 60 votes uh in the
Senate, that by definition will require
some Democratic cooperation in the
Senate. You may even need Democratic
cooperation in the House as well. And
just given that lack of of comedy, that
that friction, maybe an understatement,
uh I do think that the, you know, the
Democrats may very well be willing to
take the political risk and shut down
the government. Now, what we've seen
from an economic perspective, it doesn't
really matter unless it is a prolonged
shutdown. But again, I don't think the
risk of that is necessarily zero. Uh
just given some of these uh sort of
political dynamics,
>> the issue we've been talking about the
last 24 hours is very much close to home
for you. in the bond market for the team
over at PIMCO. What's been amazing for
Lisa, me, and others on this program is
to see tariffs go from something that
was bond negative in April to bond
positive as we kick off September. How
are you and the team thinking about that
now?
>> Yeah. Well, and I think actually and all
of these these things that we just were
talking about too, I mean, from our
perspective, really lead to what we've
seen in the bond market, which is a
curve steepening kind of bias. Uh, and
that is something that we've had we've
been positioned for that really since
the beginning of this year. Um clearly
there might be even more room to run on
this in terms of the concerns around Fed
independence, the concerns around
inflation, uh the concerns about a
government shutdown. We think that all
reinforces uh at least a steepening
bias. Um but yeah, I mean I think you
know you know again this is the the kind
of where we think this is sort of our
sweet spot in terms of being active
managers uh being able to find some
value in the bond market. But again, all
of these things that we speak up from in
terms of Washington really do reinforce
this idea of a of a bond steepening.
>> How much revenue are they raising
through tariffs at the moment?
>> Well, there I mean a lot. I mean it's
you know as to date it's around for
fiscal year it's around $150 billion. Um
so there is of course a question of
whether the government would have to
return that money. I think that is an
open question. You know, our view here
is that um that the sort of this this
legal process that you all have been
talking about will play itself out, will
likely go to the Supreme Court if that
is adjudicated on a sort of a normal
time frame. That means that we could we
may not see a ruling until actually of
June of 2026. So the up sort of the
upshot for the market here is even
though there's a lot of noise back and
forth around these tariffs, our
expectation is that they they stay on at
least in some form or fashion uh for the
foreseeable future. And then of course,
as we've talked about, John before, the
president has a lot of other tools. So
if if the Supreme Court decides in an
expedited fashion that he cannot do
this, we think that he will put tariffs
on using some of these other levers that
he has.
>> Liby, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks a Libby Canel there of Pimco.
Besson talking about raising 300 to 500
billion a year.
>> Yeah, which is the reason why it's a
bond negative if they aren't raising
that revenue because what is going to
plug that fiscal cap?
>> Your tie this morning by a single basis
point coming up. Bloomberg's Jamie Rush
as European bond yields hit multi-deade
highs. Plus, we'll catch up with Danny
with your morning movers with a look at
Macy's up 10%.
Stocks doing okay, positive by 0.4% on
the S&P 500. Similar move elsewhere on
the Nasdaq, higher by 0.64, 64 thanks to
the movement of two names Apple and
Google which we'll get to a little bit
later in a few moments time in the bond
market 2-year 10 year 30 year just want
to sit on this within one basis point of
5% twice in the last 24 hours the
30-year yield coming back down to about
496 96 but hitting a bit of a ceiling on
that front this line in the sand 5%
still there yields high by a single
basis point this morning on 30s on 10's
up by a little more than one to 42770
things calming down at least so far this
morning.
>> You're right to point out that it's hit
or just been below that 5% threshold
several times in the past 24 hours
because a lot of people have pointed to
technical aspects of this. That was the
fear yesterday that we were superseding
some technical levels. Today, not so
much. We're just giving people faith
that maybe we've kind of blown the top
off in terms of the freakout, the sort
of toxic brew of concerns that have been
ongoing for quite a while. Maybe it's
just settling down. Do you think the
concerns though were greater here in the
states or greater elsewhere in places
like France, like the UK?
>> Well, considering the fact that France
is facing a no confidence vote and a
destruction of their government in
Japan, you're facing also a similar
potential removal of the prime minister.
And in the United Kingdom, well, it's a
lot of people have described it as
something of a dumpster fire in terms of
the fiscal picture and what the options
are for Rachel Reeves. So, you could say
that it's arguably worse elsewhere. In
the United States, it's a bigger market
and it's a more global market and it's
facing similar types of dynamics and so
that's why people are lumping them
together. But I agree with you. I think
that they are separate stories.
>> I saw the UK not having its budget until
the end of November. So all of the
rumors, the speculation, the reports
about all these different policies is
going to continue now for the next 3
months potentially.
>> So how do they message that they
actually are thinking of cutting the
budget? Right? I mean because that
ultimately is what a lot of bond
investors and what you were arguing for
and there was a huge article in the
financial times saying people in the
market and I thought oh they listened to
John uh talking about cutting cutting
expenses but you know how much can they
really propose that given that that
isn't popular uh for a lot of the
politicians who are in charge
>> they're going to do what they think is
right and ultimately what they think is
right is putting up taxes they actually
going to cut spending I don't think so a
lot of people in this market would
suggest that they do that putting up
taxes is just going to keep on hammering
this economy which is the game we've
seen play in the UK over the last 12
months.
>> If they do, watch out for those bond
vigilantes because already they're
lining up and they're saying don't do
that because we will come for you. And
so let's see this sort of game of
chicken play out in the UK bond market.
>> UK bond yields down by a couple of basis
points. We'll come back to that story in
just a moment as we count you down to
the opening bell. Two hours away with
some single names, some morning movers.
Here's Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It's the two big movers of the
day. It is Google and Apple with a judge
ruling that Google does not have to sell
its Chrome browsers. No, nor does it
need to end its revenue sharing
agreement with the likes of Apple. Hence
why you are seeing both stocks rise this
morning. A much milder outcome for this
Google antitrust case. Dan eyes at Webb
Bush of course has a colorful thing out
saying that the government folded like a
cheap suit and the man certainly knows
suit. So shares of Google up just under
6%. Meanwhile, we had some retail
earnings out in the last 30 minutes.
Macy's among them up more than 12%. A
really really solid quarter. In fact,
they saw their best comparable same
store sales in 12 quarters. It's been a
turnaround story for them. They called
the consumer more choiceful. That's the
word that they used, but saying that
they are flexible and can meet those
demands from the consumer. On the other
side of things, we also had Dollar Tree
earnings, the discounter. Those shares
falling 5 and a3% initially with a pop
higher because they had a beat and a
raise for the full year. The issue for
them is it seems like there was some
funny timing around tariff impacts. They
logged a 20 cent positive EPS adjustment
on what they said was tariff timing.
Analysts looked at that and said, "Okay,
the results maybe aren't as good and
they're just getting this artificial
bump. Hence, you see shares falling more
than 5%." John,
>> he knows cheap suits. Danny, get it
right. Danny, thank you. Thank you very
much. That was an easy one. Well, Danny,
in about an hour's time, it was harsh,
wasn't it? Okay. On a radar this
morning, Alphabet shares rising in the
pre-market. Some antitrust relief for
Google. A judge ruling the company does
not have to sell its Chrome browser.
Google will have to share online search
data with some of its rivals. That
stock, as Danny said, is is high this
morning by close to 6%.
>> And you see also uh some of the shares
of Apple also popping on the heels of
this because they're going to continue
getting some $20 billion from putting
Chrome and Google uh their search
platform as the default on their
devices. When you take a step back, the
fact that the market is up because of
these names highlights how much this
market is leveraged to just a handful of
AI related names and it really raises
some of these larger questions about
have we really fully in inflated the
valuations of some of these companies.
Deutsche Bank analysts Adrien Cox and
Stefan Averton are putting out this
series called the summer AI turned ugly
where they look at all of the potential
bare cases for AI and you're seeing that
more as the entire market hinges more on
these names. Julian Emanuel looking for
a number close to 8K in the S&P year end
next year and he's got a big bet on AI
and he says this is going to be bigger
than the internet and it may well be.
But what did we see happen with the
internet? It was interrupted by a
massive misallocation of resources. A
boom and then a bust before ultimately
it concentrated the gains around a
handful of names in the following 20
years or so. Are we going to see the
same thing play out this time? and how
much does that depend on the adoption
and how it is adopted in the other 493
and beyond stocks. It's a reason why I'm
curious how a number of companies are
implementing this, especially after that
MIT study that came out earlier this
year that suggested maybe the rest of
the 493 aren't seeing the financial
gains as quickly or as significantly as
a lot of people were expecting.
>> Alphabet up by close to 6% in the
pre-market. Here's the latest on trade.
The president saying he's not looking to
lower tariffs on India. The US doubling
levies on New Delhi to 50% as punishment
for buying Russian crude. India hopes to
finalize a trade deal with the US later
this year potentially by November.
>> This is the why behind why we saw Modi
over uh going out with Xinping and
Vladimir Putin and talking about new
alliances. It's almost as if they're
being pushed to do so. They're being
pushed to choose sides. And so it seems
like President Trump is doubling down on
this whole idea of tariffs that
supersede what you're seeing on China.
How do companies deal with this when
they were thinking of moving
manufacturing away from China to India?
The fact that Yeah, exactly. I mean, how
does this sort of uh J shake out? It
seems like a lot of companies are
continuing those plans. So expecting
that to sort of ease.
>> I think there's an exemption for
electronics, right, for Indian tariffs,
but ultimately I'm totally there with
you. And the epicenter for this is
foreign policy and it's Russia and the
war in Ukraine. Clearly and for good
reason. in the White House is upset that
India is buying so much Russian crude
and that China's been a big piece of
this relationship with Russia as well
and it's just pushing China and India
closer and closer together when only
very recently we were talking about
India being an offset to China things
have been turned upside down almost
completely
>> what I'm watching is the flows uh in
terms of trade between India and China
how much are those relationships getting
solidified versus just simply optics and
that has been the big question in a lot
of what's happened over the past 24
hours
>> that's the latest on trade Here's the
latest on the Federal Reserve. So, we're
learning the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson will begin interviewing
replacements for Fed Chair Jay Pal this
coming Friday. The Wall Street Journal
reporting there are 11 contenders
following the interviews. Person will
present a final list to the president to
have a look through.
>> Key question, what does the Fed look
like post Powell and increasingly a lot
of people looking to a change in the
reaction function? And I was talking
about this earlier uh that the team over
at Morgan Stanley said after Jackson
Hole, they changed their view for rate
cuts because clearly the reaction
function at the Federal Reserve has
changed. They are going to opt for uh
protecting growth and protecting the
economy at the risk of faster inflation
down the line seems to be what they're
talking about this morning as well.
>> Is that what the replacement's going to
do, too?
>> Well, that's exactly it, right? I mean,
is that what we're looking for given the
fact that that seems to be the tone
coming from this administration?
>> Let's get to the bond market. This
conversation has big implications for
what's happening worldwide. European
bond yields hitting multi-deade highs in
the last few days. In France, the
highest going back to the Eurozone debt
crisis back in 2011. In the UK, the
highest since 1998. And over in Japan,
the highest on record. Joining us now to
discuss is Bloomberg's Jamie Rush.
Jamie, welcome to the program, sir.
Let's focus on Europe and the recent
developments. Lisa and I have been
talking about this for a while, whether
these moves will force corrective action
in France, in the UK. What are you and
the team focused on?
>> Well, I I think first we need to
recognize, right, that this is a there's
a very big global component to what's
going on with bond yields globally,
especially at the long end. Uh, but you
are of course right that Japan, that
France, that the UK are at the epicenter
of this. Um, I guess I guess one thing I
I'd point out if we're thinking about
how worried we should be about this is
that because it's so concentrated at the
long end and because we only issue say
about 10% of our debt at around that
horizon, it's not going to have an
immediate fiscal consequence. So the the
imperative to start to respond to this
um isn't really going to be there. there
isn't a really sharp market incentive at
this precise moment precisely because
it's concentrated at the very long end
of the curve. Um so I'd be thinking more
about the the longer term outlook for
rates at the horizons more like 10 year.
Um and still that you know there's cause
for concern there's corrective action
which needs to happen but fundamentally
I mean for some countries like like
France there's nothing that can be done
until the the political situation is is
settled and that's not going to be
settled now. the the fractious nature of
the politics means that it may not be
settled for quite some time.
>> There's a distinction to make, Jamie, as
you point out with the UK because they
have a majority in parliament. They have
the ability to do something. Do they
have the willingness? And now we
understand we've all got to wait until
the end of November for the budget.
Jamie, what do you suppose that budget
is going to look like?
>> John, I'd be happy to wait even longer
than November if that's what it took to
get the UK back in shape. Um, what
should we be expecting? Well, look,
let's think about what the big picture
here is. Um, if you think about what how
much what's the tax ratio look like in
an economy? Well, it should look
something a little bit like the old age
dependency ratio. As your population
ages, you've got to finance it somehow.
You got to finance the outlays. Uh, and
if you look at a plot of dependency
against tax ratios, uh, you'll see
there's a bit bit of room for the UK to
keep moving higher with the with the tax
rate. So, ultimately that, as you said
earlier, is likely to be the way out.
you can't, it's very difficult to secure
a political mandate to achieve spending
cuts. That's true in France. It's true
in the UK. Um, and so it it points you
in one direction. It's probably going to
be tax rises.
>> Jamie, I know that the UK is in a
different position than the rest of
Europe. But can you lump together Europe
and say that they're in a better
situation than the US or a worse
situation than the United States
fiscally?
I mean in aggregate I would say the
Europe is not looking too bad relative
to the US. I mean if you think about the
size of the budget deficit, the
difficulty and the political constraints
in shrinking it in the US um I don't
think Europe looks particularly bad on
the whole. But of course Europe is not a
a whole is it? It's it's not a fiscal
union. Germany looks solid. Um France on
the other hand does not. And so we're
going to see these pockets of risk
intensifying until there's political
clarity and and the our view at
Bloomberg Economics is that the
fractured nature of the politics just
means that that's not going to come into
view anytime soon. So we're going to be
looking at stop gap solutions, budget
stop gaps over the coming year perhaps
um that get us a budget or get us some
spending continuing, but it's not going
to be a resolution. It's not going to be
a comprehensive fiscal plan by by a long
shot. The reason why I asked that,
Jamie, is because a lot of people had
talked about how the United States and
some of the concerns here were driving
some of the dysfunction in the rest of
the world. And as John pointed out
earlier, actually we're seeing the
market protest dysfunction in places
like Europe, in places like Japan almost
more than what we're seeing in the
United States where there's the offset
of revenues, whether it's from tariffs
or whether it's from faster growth. Do
you think that's a fair way to look at
it?
Uh yeah, I think it I can I can see
there's I can see it that way. And if
you wanted to if you want to think of
another factor, well, the US isn't going
to have to ramp up defense spending in
the same way that Europe is going to
have to. Uh so if you want to know
another dividing line, then then that's
another one which kind of pushes you
towards the US. Um but I I I still I
don't think you can underestimate the
degree of division across the house. um
and the uh the lack of political will uh
in the US to tackle the budget deficit
irrespective of where we are now in the
in the current regime or where we may be
in five or 10 years time. It's it's very
hard to see that changing. Jamie,
appreciate your time. I have a feeling
we'll be talking again soon. Jamie Rush
there of Bloomberg out of London on the
situation in Europe. You got to wait a
few months to get that statement from
the chancellor in the UK.
>> He said he'd love to wait if that really
meant something that would actually turn
things around.
>> I agree.
>> I think a lot of people would agree. The
question is, will they actually uh
engage with some of those spending cuts?
And I do think it's notable that pretty
much everyone in bond markets are
saying, you got to do it. And they're
saying, uh, maybe we could just raise
taxes a little bit right here.
>> The good news for this morning, at
least, is yields are lower by three
basis points or so. 30-year bond yields
in the UK, 566.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yahihara. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump is
calling out China's President Xi. Trump
took to social media posting, "Please
give my warmest regards to Vladimir
Putin and Kim Jong-un as you conspire
against the United States of America."
This comes as she hosted Russia's
Vladimir Putin and North Korea's Kim
Jong-un, as you can see there, for
China's largest military parade.
Meanwhile, Meta has poached more AI
talent from Apple. The iPhone makers
lead AI researcher left to join the Meta
Robotics Studio. and sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, three more AI
researchers are leaving Apple's large
language models team. As we've reported
before, Apple is exploring whether to
rely more on outside technology rather
than homegrown models. And sticking with
tech, Anthropic has closed a deal to
raise $13 billion. This new round of
funding nearly triples its valuation to
$183 billion, making the AI company one
of the most valuable startups in the
world. Philanthropic will use the new
funding to meet growing enterprise
demand for their safety research and
accelerate plans for international
expansion. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the bond selloff continues.
>> You have these policies that really are
incompatible with lower inflation and
with lower yields. And that I think is
driving the market um in the long end
pretty much around the world.
>> A conversation up next with Greg Peters
of PGM live from New York City. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back to the program. Equity
futures doing better. Up by 0.5 on the
S&P 500, up by 0.7 on the NASDAQ 100. A
lift to this equity market so far this
morning. Out of Savas this morning
elsewhere, the bond selloff continues.
>> You have these policies that really are
incompatible with lower inflation and
with lower yields. And that I think is
driving the market um in the long end
pretty much around the world and don't
really know what's going to change that
dynamic unless you get policy changes
andor some sort of recession signal that
actually pulls long-term yields down.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
30-year bond yield coming within just
one basis point of 5% earlier in the
session. Greg Peters is a page from
fixed income writing markets are torn
between the support from lower US
front-end yields and the risk premium
associated with unconventional policy.
Greg joins us now for more. Greg,
welcome to the program, sir. Just to
extend that quote. What do you think is
the greater force at the moment?
>> I think it's the uncertainty. Uh I think
the term risk premium uh is the driver.
Uh and that manifests uh in you know
many different ways. is, you know, I've
heard a lot of commentary, you know,
throughout the morning and, you know, it
is a global sell-off and there's
different reasons, you know, behind
what's happening in the UK versus the
US. Uh, but ultimately, I think there is
this this risk premium function that's
being priced in uh that's overwhelming
what uh central bank policy uh is
endeavoring to do.
>> Greg, as you know, over the last month
or so, we've seen steepeners both in
Europe and in the US. The steepener in
the US has been more of a bull steepener
led by the front end. in France and the
UK has been more of a bare steeper led
by the long end. Do you see reason for
the long end in the United States to
begin to participate in the same way
we've seen elsewhere?
>> I do I I mean the US has been an
outperformer in the back end. So we're
talking about hitting 5% but if you look
at kind of throughout Europe uh you know
the curve steepen much more and and is
currently much steeper. So I think
there's scope for the US to catch up. Uh
I think the US has outperformed for a
few reasons. first and foremost um is
the tariffs, right? So, you know, the
bond markets are pricing in that revenue
uh at least a portion of it. It's
unclear one if those tariffs will stay
in place and what happens to that
revenue. So it was more of an hedge. Uh
and the other is around kind of this
this notion or this belief that the
treasury will operate some kind of twist
function. Uh where you know you look at
the UK and in Japan they've just you
know really hit the back end of the
curve hard from a supply standpoint.
Bond investors are a little concerned
about putting on too much of a steepener
trade uh given the fact that you might
see some change um in the uh supply. So,
Greg, this is an issue of betting that
the United States Treasury Department is
not going to sell 30-year bonds nearly
as much as T bills, which we know is
currently uh part of the plan. How much
is this also counting on unconventional
Fed policies and some operation twist as
executed by the balance sheet in some
fashion?
>> No, no, no. I think it's all related.
Um, you know, honestly, uh, uh, but, you
know, let's be clear, Lisa, uh, it is
unclear. So, we don't know. So, we're
just hedging our bets. You know, as with
everything, uh uncertainty continues to
rule the day. Uh kind of the range of
volatility on the bond side at least has
consolidated much less than where we
were a year ago, two years ago, 6 months
ago. Uh so, we are, you know,
consolidating, but at the end of the
day, we just don't know, right? We don't
know what the fiscal looks like. Uh and
I think that's important. And so, the
bond market's kind of playing that game.
And we also don't know what Treasury
intends to do uh uh with the forward
issuance calendar.
>> So if I put this together into some sort
of trade, Greg, are you buying European
long bonds and selling the ones in the
US?
>> Yeah. So I think Europe looks
attractive, right? If you look at it
just on a kind of a fundamental basis,
just forget the supply dynamics for a
moment. Uh you know, the UK, there's
been lots of chatter around the UK of
course the past couple days. Uh but the
UK actually does have a better fiscal
position than the US, right? just on a
debt to GDP basis uh and yields are
substantially higher right um um and
then if you look at it on a forward
basis US versus Europe and I know Europe
is a conglomerate of you know different
kind of fiscal situations but if you
look at Europe um yeah there's u you
know some fiscal decline potentially but
maybe not as much as the US so yeah I
actually see more opportunities outside
the US from a bond market perspective
than I do within the US
>> Greg Are we comparing apples to apples
here though? Aren't the fiscal concerns
in the UK more relevant to the UK market
than fiscal concerns in America are to
the US market? We've often talked about
this the unique privilege America has of
borrowing in the debt markets. Is it a
relevant source of risk?
>> Well, you know, I think that'll be
tested over time. Uh uh but if you look
at it just on a pure basis from that
lens, Jonathan, the US is benefiting,
right? If you look at it just you know
debt to GDP scatter versus yields or
curve slope you know the US is sticking
out in a positive way. So I think the
question on the table is will that
remain. Um and I'm less sure about that
quite candidly. Uh not suggesting it's
going to lose all of its privilege but
maybe some of it. Um, and I think
that'll be tested, that narrative will
continue to be tested over the course of
the next month, 2 months, two years.
>> Greg, just before you go, you mentioned
favoring UK debt, maybe European debt
more broadly. Are there pockets along
the curve that you're more constructive
on and other pockets that you would be
hands off you'd leave alone?
>> No, I mean I mean the long end's
interesting. That's where uh the market
has really sold off and it's sold off
for, you know, good reason. So, I don't
want to suggest that it's uh uh just a
waveed in type of uh trade, but but
that's where the dislocation is. And I
see uh more scope in kind of the
intermediate to back end, the curves and
I do the front end, where in the US it's
it's opposite where I see more
opportunities in the kind of the belly
and inward. Uh so, it's kind of a a very
different trade outside the US versus
inside the US.
>> Interesting, Greg. Well framed.
Interesting to hear your opinion. Thank
you, sir. Greg Peters there of PGM fixed
income on the latest in this bond
market. The way that conversation
started I think has been really
underplayed not just recently but
through much of this year just how much
outperformance we've actually seen in
the US debt market relative to what
we've seen play out in Europe.
>> Yeah I was looking at the yield curve uh
between whether it's tens and 30s or
twos and tens and yeah it's widened out
in the United States but just to the
highest levels since a couple years ago
it's not exactly this incredible
steepening and you could say it's
because people are expecting a
reaceleration in growth. Isn't that
usually a positive uh sign for risk
assets going forward is something we
were talking about? At the same time, it
does seem like the US is subject to some
of the same concerns overseas. So why
has there been such an outperformance?
The idea that Greg was saying maybe it's
because of the tariff revenues really
highlights how much there is uncertainty
about the fiscal picture of the United
States.
>> We're talking about real money, 300 to
500 billion of revenue every single
year. Now we can have a big debate about
the source of that income and whether it
should be coming from those places but
ultimately it's going to be supportive
of the bond market
>> and has been
>> honestly I have I have no I mean people
can come up with lots of different
reasons and I'll say yes that sounds
great
>> that's what makes a mark
>> exactly but right now it's a very
uncertain time
>> coming up on the program we'll talk
about that uncertainty with Jatania
Kandari of Morgan Stanley we'll catch up
with Stefan Stinsky of BMP Parabar Nancy
Lazar of Ber Sandler and Mark Cabana of
Bank of America the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance up Next.
[Music]
>> There's a lot of negativity hiding out
in pockets of the market that have not
performed.
>> The outlook for the equity market from
here is not really that robust.
>> You're really seeing this pivot and
rotation.
>> You got to follow the tech stocks. If
they go down, the market's going to go
down. For most investors, they're really
levered to what's happening at the Fed.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning. Good morning. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equities
on the S&P 500 positive by 0.4% bouncing
back supported by Google and Apple. The
NASDAQ 100 higher by 0.65 65 in the bond
market within one basis point of 5% at
the long end of the curve in the last 24
hours this morning 49593 and yields just
a touch lower unchanged on tents 42692
and lots of data still to come later on
this morning job openings the drum beat
continues ADP data tomorrow together
with jobless claims and then payrolls
this Friday
>> key question is how bad does the data
have to be to reintroduce the idea of a
50 basis point rate cut this month and
you might laugh and say really we're
talking about that again. I thought we
took that off the table. And yet Stephen
Englander actually over at Sander
Chartered put out a piece overnight
where he said actually if the non-farm
payrolls report comes in with a headline
number of 40,000 or if provisions come
in really uh problematically they could
see a reason to cut by 50 basis points
and suddenly you might see a huge rally
in the global bond markets and we could
reverse this whole conversation.
>> Well, I can tell you the median estimate
is 75, the low is zero, the new high is
144. So that's a pretty wide spread
going into Friday. And you could make
that spread even wider when you start to
talk about revisions and how accurate
any of this data actually is and how
much the market is going to look at that
which is a reason why we're all very
excited about ADP and Jolts today. Don't
forget Jolt. I'm very curious about job
openings and the quits rate which might
tell us more as well as the ISM sub
components from yesterday.
>> So that's for July and as we understand
in July things weren't tremendous based
on non-farm payrolls. much more
interested in the data still to come and
a forward look at things because this
market is pricing in a big snapback, a
recovery, an acceleration in growth
reflected in and by what we saw in the
equity market just last month. Home
builders doing nicely, airlines doing
nicely, small caps running aggressively.
That's got to be supported by a rebound
in the actual economic data. Let's see
if we get it.
>> I have an economic data point for you.
What have you got? the beige book that
is coming out later today and I can tell
you I am very interested to see the
beige book because it might give some
commentary about how much companies are
actually uh re-upping some of those
investment plans. Although of course it
can all be dated considering the court
case and what that could actually do.
But that is the key question. How much
do you see a reaceleration in investment
beyond just the artificial artificial
intelligence giants that have powered a
lot of the index higher? Even if we do
get some questions around the underlying
economy,
>> the good news is Chairman Pal's not
going to wait. He already looks spooked.
It looks like he's going to prioritize a
little bit of front loading, a rate cut
in September regardless of what the data
looks like between now and then and
potentially beyond.
>> And this is the reason why I think the
bond market selloff has spooked a lot of
people and you could say it's a global
story and you could say it's a real
question of fiscal uh authorities kind
of facing a lot of dysfunction. But
there is a bias to allow inflation to
run hotter. When you have Japan and
their core CPI coming in above where the
United States is is for the first time
in 40 years, you are talking about a new
inflationary regime globally. And if the
Fed's going to tolerate that, if they're
not necessarily going to see that as the
priority in terms of the concern, that
introduces a new risk. Of course, in the
break even rates, you're not seeing
inflation necessarily as a concern
that's coming out, but this is what a
lot of people are saying.
>> I hear you, Lisa. I'm totally there with
you. I don't think anyone on the
committee can look at you with a
straight face and say they're targeting
2%. I think that that's correct
>> because if they think they are, they've
failed. They've clearly prioritized the
labor market. We saw that last year when
they cut 100 basis points and arguably
we're seeing it again going into the
September meeting.
>> If you look at break even rates, people
are saying 2%. The new 2% is something
like 2.4%. And if you're targeting 2%,
you say, I'll be okay getting down to 2%
in 2035 as long as we maintain
unemployment rates at this level. That's
a very different type of 2% target than
during a period of time where it was
getting inflation up to 2% not down to
2%.
>> You know what the schedule looks like?
Payrolls this Friday, then 6 days later
on the 11th we'll get CPI. Then the
following week that Federal Reserve
decision. Coming up this hour over the
next 60 minutes we'll catch up with
Kandari of Morgan Stanley as global
bonds are facing renewed selling
pressure. Stefan Sloinsky of BMP
Parabahar as Google wins the antitrust
battle to keep Chrome and Nancy Lazar of
Piper Sandler as we look ahead to jobs
data throughout this week. We begin this
out with the global bond market selloff
showing some signs of easing. Bond
yields this morning just about stable in
the states and in the UK. As for Japan,
still very close to the highs on record.
Jatani Kandari of Morgan Stanley joins
us now for more. Jatani, good morning.
It's good to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by the studio. these
global bond market moves, you seem
comfortable with things, things are
okay. Are you more comfortable with
what's developing in the United States
versus what's happening elsewhere?
>> Yeah, I think there are two things for
the bond deals in the United States,
right? One is the fiscal and one is
inflation. Right. On the fiscal, I think
there are offsetting factors. There is
spending, there's some revenue coming in
from tariffs. I I don't worry
excessively there. On inflation, it's
important to keep in mind that though
the goods inflation rates are going up
because of tariffs, on the services
side, inflation has been coming down and
things like rent uh are a big part of
the core CPI. Uh wages, they are also an
integral part of the CPI. So on the
services side, you have inflation coming
down. So I'm not so worried uh between
the goods and the services inflation,
you could have inflation rates of two
core PCE of 2.8. 83%. So sticky
inflation but not a runaway inflation
story that really
>> of course not. But this is ultimately
what we're getting at. Three is the new
two is it not?
>> It is. And I think based on that if you
look at where we are on a real rates and
a 10ear it seems like fair value. And if
Fed were to cut rates uh I mean I think
that's a high chance. 10 10 year 10ear
always comes off when Fed cuts rates
historically. So, I'm not overly
concerned on this runup uh in yields.
Markets tend to overreact in the short
term, but I think based on the economics
of the situation, we should be okay.
Well, does it really uh pull into
question this idea of dollar
depreciation though because if the
United States is dealing with inflation
and yields that are going up, well, it
looks less bad if the rest of the world
is experiencing it and then some and you
see inflation actually running hotter in
a place like Japan. So, does this story
necessarily come together with an
ongoing depreciation of the dollar? It's
exactly the point. I think the worry is
more on the dollar. So, interestingly,
from midappril to date, the dollar has
been steady, but you've had a
depreciation trend and a counter trend
rally tactically in June to August. I
think at this stage, the 2-year and the
5-year differentials, which is typically
what drives the dollar versus especially
the G3 FX are now favoring XUS. So you
have that uh interest rate differentials
actually uh helping XUS and the
administration wants a weak dollar
because that'll help deficits, that'll
help trade competitiveness, that'll help
the debt. So I think that continues and
that makes international assets
appealing.
>> This to me is really a theme that's been
throughout the morning. We've heard this
from Jamie Rush. We heard this from Greg
Peters. the buy Europe and the European
bond story in the wake of the sell-off
more so than the long end of the US
because there seems to have been maybe
an overestimation of political
dysfunction and fiscal dysfunction in
Europe and right now you're getting
compensated for it there while you're
not getting compensated in the United
States. Do you agree with that? Do you
think that things have gone a little bit
too far outside of the US?
>> I think so. I think the one thing to
keep in mind is Europe now the inflation
has bottomed out. So I don't think ECB
will cut rates. Uh the other point is
Europe with the fiscal stimulus is going
to issue a lot of bonds and I think
there's more opportunity outside the US
for the first time. Japan is positive.
So there are bonds there to buy. And
most importantly, I think the public
private partnership route that Germany
is going to take in this process of the
fiscal spending is also going to going
to be an important piece of the overall
infrastructure stimulus and the
state-led industrial policy that seems
to be the driving theme both within and
outside the US. Is this a story you have
more confidence playing through
equities, bonds or foreign exchange?
>> Uh a combination of two. We always look
at asset allocation in in in entirety. I
think you know the 6040 thinking about
that again. Uh but what in the 60 and
what in the 40? I mean emerging market
bonds, local bonds look great. So I
think you have to think about it having
some store of values like the like gold
or even some Bitcoin. uh it makes sense
and of course you know looking at it
across the asset allocation uh spectrum
I I'd say one thing that in US equities
the operating EPS estimates for the next
six quarters is about 13% plus
historically I was looking at this
there's only a 7% probability of that
kind of EPS momentum so the bar is
really high to meet that generally it's
about on average 8 to 9% operating EPS
PS over six quarters in a row. So that
is going I think that is the more
important point here with respect to the
equity market because you really need to
meet those expectations.
>> So you have a preference for European
equities. Is that fair?
>> I have a preference for international
equity
>> versus the US
>> uh versus the US. I mean of course you
know this is not like boycotting the US.
It's like when all this dust settles
what do you want to own? like do you
want to have 65 70% in the US which is
the US weight in the index or with this
view of the dollar with economic
traction in different pockets of the
world do you want to divert some of that
and rebalance into some of these other
economies I think that's the stance we
are taking
>> you say some of these other economies
we've talked about Europe but what about
China what about India what about some
of these other nations that are trying
to form alliances and create e economies
outside of the western alliance.
>> Yeah, there definitely seems to be like
a Eurasian alliance brewing and I think
every country is going to do that to
diversify its trade and relationships
and uh hedge themselves. Uh lots of
these countries have uh you know
initiated reforms. India I think it's
kind of overdone in terms of the sell
off and the concerns uh because the
impact on GDP is not that much I mean
maybe it shaves off 30 to 50 basis
points but it's a domestically demandd
driven economy with domestic liquidity
China with uh you know there are it's a
tale of two China right there is the old
China which is overindebted stateowned
and uh where there is excess capacity
dragging down productivity that's not
the area to be really you know backing
but there is the new China we call China
3.0 with with the AI with deepseek with
how all of this is going to get embedded
on the consumer side especially because
China is a very digitized economy and
there are a lot of opportunities in that
space as well. So there's a lot going on
in the rest of the world that merits
attention and investments.
>> Well, thanks for shining a light on it.
It's good to see you as always. Thanks
for dropping by Jatanic Kandari there of
Morgan Stanley Investment Management. If
you are just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equities bouncing back this
morning by 0.5% on the S&P. So bond
market jitters in the last 24 hours. We
can tell you things are calming down
just a little bit state side and
elsewhere as well. Bond yields in
America on a US30year just about
unchanged so far this morning, Lisa.
Short of 5%.
>> Yeah. And the fact that it hasn't been
able to really cross and sustain above
that 5% level is telling. I think it's
interesting that this morning so far a
number of different guests have said the
sell-off in European bonds and Japanese
bonds although Japanese bonds maybe less
but European bonds looks more overdone
than the one in the United States where
the US has actually been outperforming
on the long end versus the rest of the
world that is interesting to me the ex
US story coming back that's a theme
>> there's been some real resilience in the
US debt market I think it's surprised
people I understand where they're
looking now over at Europe in the debt
market in the UK and France Look, I I
wouldn't understate the difficulties
that the UK and France are going to have
addressing this problem. And we've seen
repeatedly bouts of this where the
market's going to test France, test
France repeatedly and not much has
changed. Similar story in the UK and
yields unfortunately are still going up
and to the right. And unlike equities,
that's a problem.
>> It was a problem for the Liz Trust
moment because of the speed. This time
we've superseded those levels and people
say it's still under control. will make
noise about possibly uh doing something,
but wait until November. At what point
are authorities going to be prompted to
actually make some hard decisions? It
seems like not yet.
>> It's relentless. 30 year in the UK,
close to 6%. I'm not going to downplay
that. That is getting closer and closer
to a big problem. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us
here. Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. We start with that big win for
Alphabet. Shares are rising 6% after a
judge ruled the search giant won't be
forced to sell its Chrome business in a
landmark antitrust case. Google will
however be required to share online
search data with its rivals and moving
forward it won't be able to make
contracts exclusive but can still pay
other companies to feature Google
products or use them as a default.
Meanwhile, Fed Governor Lisa Cook's
lawyer blasted President Trump's move to
oust her, saying his accusations are
based on nothing more than cut and paste
allegations of mortgage fraud made on
social media. He doubled down on
arguments he presented last week, saying
that Trump lacked valid grounds to fire
Cook for cause. Meanwhile, we are seeing
Dollar Tree shares falling three and a
half% after the discount retailer
disappointed investors by saying profit
in the current quarter would be little
change. The update overshadows the chain
boosting its annual outlook by 2%.
Dollar Tree now braces for a tougher
second half of the year after benefiting
from consumers seeking out lower priced
goods. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, the morning calls plus Stefan
Stloinsky of Bimpy Paraba as Google wins
the antitrust battle to keep Chrome.
That conversation up next, live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Valuation is always in our mind, but at
the end of the day, valuation alone is
is something that doesn't end bull
markets. Going back to Y2K, we've seen a
series of asset price inflations. I
won't call them bubbles because this is
not a bubble in our mind. Now,
>> that was Julian Emanuel of Evercore
looking for the S&P 500 to grind higher
towards close towards 8K on the S&P 500
by year end next year. This morning
already an upgrade this time from HSBC
for the second time in about a month.
They lifted their price target to 6,400
on the S&P in August. It's now 6,500
which is basically Brammo where we are
right now.
>> I feel like this is marked to market and
that's what we've seen all year. It was
brought down, then brought back up. And
even Julian Emanuel, who's so bullish
for the end of the next year, is raising
his price target for the end of this
year to something like 6250, which is
below where we are now. So, it just
shows how fast we've gone.
>> Playing catch-up, the rally continues.
We're bouncing back by 0.5% on the S&P
so far this morning. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning calls
with one name in focus, Alphabet. First
up, JP Morgan raising its price target
to 260, saying the court's ruling was
much more favorable than anticipated.
The second call from Wed Bush raising
its price target on Alphabet's 245,
saying the ruling was a monster win that
removes a huge overhang from the stock.
And finally, Citizens JMP raising its
price target on 250 and maintaining an
outperform rating saying the ruling is a
best case outcome for the name. Joining
us now to discuss is Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Mandy, good
morning sir. The stock is higher by
6.5%. Let's just start with your initial
take. How favorable was this for
Alphabet? I mean Chrome has so much
strategic value for Alphabet that when
you think about you know generative AI
this is the priced asset that everyone
wants even open AI and perplexity you
know openly bid for uh you know being a
buyer of Chrome. So
>> do you think that helped them? I I
certainly think it it did because what
it shows the judge and it was evident
you know in the from the time he had the
hearings to this remedy uh phase where
competition in Gen AI is far more than
traditional search and if you look at
the 230 page uh filing I mean there half
of it is AI chat bots and LLMs and how
you know competition has increased so
there is an acknowledgement that clearly
things have changed and That's why I
think uh they didn't go with the Chrome
devestigure which was on the table
initially.
>> Is Google doing enough with Chrome to
compete with the likes of OpenAI? Isn't
that the bigger question rather than
just simply the antitrust case?
>> Well, they weren't doing I think before
because of the antirust case. Now that
this has passed it, I I think they would
try for more deeper integration because
think of it this way. If you want a good
AI agent, where would you type your
query? It's that Chrome browser bar.
like you don't even want to go in the
app and type your query. There is still
friction. You can minimize the number of
clicks just by doing everything in the
browser search bar. And so from that
perspective, Google has the data
advantage with they may have to
syndicate. I mean that was part of the
ruling as well that they may have to
indic syndicate some of the data but
Google has so much data user data live
data local data that okay what do you
syndicate and and so from that
perspective the family of apps is what
gives Google the advantage along with
the infrastructure and chrome is where
they interface with the customer so from
that perspective this is really a big
positive for alphabet
>> and mandep stay close I want to bring in
Stephan Stavinsky of bmp parabah xan
who's keeping and a neutral rating on
Alphabet with a 187 price target. Stefan
joins us now for more. Stefan, welcome
to the program, sir. I just want to
build up on some of the things that
Mandep was talking about this sharing of
data. Can you shine a light on that just
a little bit more? How much will that be
an advantage to some of the competitors
of this company?
>> Yeah, good morning, Jonathan, and thank
you for having me. And I think that's
going to quickly become the question
going forward. Certainly, the ruling
that Chrome will not have to be divested
is positive. I think that was always
seen as a tail risk and not a natural
solution here. But still it was a tail
risk. Uh and that can now be removed.
But now we need to think about Google
opening up some of its search data to uh
competitors to these qualified
competitors. So that's going to now
include the likes of OpenAI and
Perplexity. It'll be interesting to see
which of the big tech competitors uh
take the government up on that offer.
Will we see Microsoft? Will we see Meta?
Will we see Apple? will they start to
potentially see this as an opportunity
to take another shot at search? Uh
there's a a ticking clock of 5 years to
be able to use this data to improve the
long tale of search results. That's kind
of where some of the AI chatbots have
struggled and so we'll see if they can
uh include that data to improve those
outcomes and and catch up with Google in
more traditional search queries.
Stephan, to Mandep's point, how much
does Chrome or Google have already what
they need to generate real artificial
intelligence infused uh responses to the
queries in short order after this court
case to compete more effectively with
the likes of OpenAI.
>> Google already has everything it needs.
It has the most complete tech stack in
the industry. everything from the
proprietary TPU, their own GPUs that
they have, the large language models
with the Gemini family. They literally
invented the transformer model and were
were the founders of these large
language models into those 15 different
apps that we were just talking about
with half a billion users each. They
also have, I think, a culture of
innovation and execution, which they
probably don't get enough credit for.
So, they already have everything they
need. Maybe they feel like this gives
them the green light to continue to
better integrate all of those services
and try to more forcibly take their
market share and traditional search into
AI. Um, but also as we've already seen
uh they are still behind in terms of
consumer adoption. At the end of the
day, Chat GPT has 700 million users and
when you look at AI search, you still
have Chat GPT and others competing very
aggressively with Google. So there's
still a branding issue that Google needs
to catch up on here.
>> How much of a discount still remains in
Alphabet shares because a lot of the
legal challenges aren't over. We've
already heard from the Department of
Justice that they're going to take the
fight further and there are are other
avenues that uh they are approaching.
>> Yeah. So uh let's keep in mind that
Google shares have rallied 20% just in
July and August going into this
announcement. So I think investors um
were were thinking or hoping were
betting on a favorable outcome. you're
still trading at around 20 times
earnings, around a 10% discount to the
historic average. So maybe we see that
gap close a bit further. There are still
some overhangs. You still have the AI
uncertainty overhang about disruption in
potentially the business model and
clicking on blue links and disruption
from new competitors. You still have an
overhang for corporate communication.
It's a company that doesn't provide
guidance that doesn't interact much with
the street. You still have a little bit
of an overhang on the regulatory front
on the adtec side with another remedy
trial starting later in September. So
there are still overhangs, but I think
you could see the discount to Meta which
is trading on 23 times continue to close
as Meta begins to struggle with their
own Gen AI efforts and as it looks like
Google's getting their act together on
their AI capabilities
>> and Meta has thrown a lot of money at
it. Stefan, I appreciate your time.
Stefan Stinsky there of BMP Parabar Xan
thinking of overhangs the biggest
overhang right now. It's got to be the
most obvious one that more and more
people are gravitating towards using
chat GBT over to using Google search.
>> Yeah. The as Mandep was saying though,
if you could just type it into Google
search and get that same sweet voice
whispering uh you know responses to you
in the evening then maybe that reduces
the friction of going to a separate app
of Chhat GBT.
>> This about your dad's relationship with
Chat GBT. Again,
>> all I know is that it dominates our
conversation.
>> What is going on over there?
>> All I can say is it gives us all the
answers. So it's really
Yeah,
>> people build some real companionship.
>> I mean, I don't want to throw my dad
totally under the bus. An evening
conversation. We often have Tat at the
table with us.
>> Mandy, you want to avoid this one. It's
good to see you. Thanks for dropping by
from New York City. Up next, Nancy Lazar
of Piper Sandler.
[Music]
Stocks are bouncing back up by 0.4% on
the S&P 500. There's still a lot of
bulls out there. Julian Emanuel of
Everore on the program earlier looking
for 7750 on the S&P by year end next
year. Max Kentner HSBC overweight stocks
saying he's seeing signs of a growth
reaceleration. Sevita Subramanium at
Bank of America positive tail risk is
still underappreciated especially in
light of a potential sales recovery.
It's the rebound a lot of people are
looking for
>> and we heard that from Macy's this
morning with respect to school sales
that they're really seeing people uh
come back and really buy. Question is
how broad-based is this? Is this just
investment in AI or is this a broader
reaceleration in the economy that can
support other aspects of the market
because we do still see the ISM
manufacturing in a downturn in a
contraction territory.
>> How disruptive will this bond market be?
I switch up the board and turn to fixed
income. Twos 10 and 30s. Bond yields so
far this morning stabilizing settling
down up a single basis point on 10 and
just about unchanged so far this morning
on 30s.
>> It depends uh whether you see this as a
good thing or a bad thing. Some people
look at this yield curve steepening the
idea of the longer end selling off more
as a positive. Essentially we wanted a
positive yield curve for a long time. It
indicates accelerating growth. Other
people say this indicates a
reaceleration or a volatility in
inflation, which it is. Go figure. All I
know is that pretty much everyone who
comes on the show says that they're
buying one to sevenyear and out the
curve is a little bit more dicey and
that seems to be the trade of the day.
>> I think it's fair to say that the moves
we've seen in the UK and France that
bare steer is not a reflection of
improving growth. It's more a a
reflection of the dire situation
politics are in and their ability and
willingness to deal with the fiscal
situation. And you put it really well in
the United States. Is there a feeling
that the bond market is somewhat
divorced from the fiscal situation that
is equally dysfunctional in many ways
and some by some metrics even worse, but
where there is the growth backdrop.
There is the AI promise. There is the
privilege of acting recklessly with the
dollar as a reserve currency. Look, for
all the freakout that we had back in
April about investors potentially
dumping US assets, I think we've got to
highlight the fact that US debt has been
remarkably stable in the face of what's
happened elsewhere, just chart tens and
30s, eyeball it. We're not seeing major
moves up and to the right like we are in
the UK and France.
>> And I've gotten several messages this
morning as we talk about investors
buying uh Europe over the US, saying not
a chance. I am going to buy the US
because it will continue with the most
strength. So I've gotten just as much
push back as we have calls on the other
side.
>> Yeah, it's going to take a lot for that
to change.
>> I mean there's a lot of structural
buying and there also is a question of
you know institutions in the US and
there's a huge consumer base both from
investment as well as uh actual
consumption
>> some buying this morning. Stocks are
higher by about a third of 1% rolling
over just a little bit with 60 minutes
less than 60 minutes to go until the
opening pal with your morning mover is
some single names. Here's Danny Burger.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. This market getting a big
helping hand from Google this morning.
Alphabet shares rallying up 6.7% after
avoiding the harshest of punishments for
its antirust case. It won't have to sell
off Chrome. And as part of that, it can
continue its revenue sharing agreement
with Apple for making Chrome its default
browser. So that's why you're also
seeing Apple shares. Those are up three
and a half%. As Lisa mentioned, we did
get Macy's earnings about a little over
an hour ago, about an hour and a half
ago. A beat and a raise. Strong results
from Macy showing that the consumer is
still getting out there and buying a
company which has had to engineer a
turnaround. Shares are up 13.7%. I will
just note note that they did say that
the consumer especially going into the
second half is looking more fickle and
more choiceful. That choiceful consumer
also leading to problems for Dollar
Tree. Those shares down 5.5% this
morning. A beat and a raise. But the
problem for them was their raise was for
the entirety of the year. The current
quarter that we're in. There appeared to
be some weakness or at least some
disappointment. They said that the third
quarter is going to look much like the
same as the prior third quarter. A
little bit of weirdness of timing on
tariff issues and the addition that's
had to their earnings. So shares there
falling off the back of that. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Look out for Danny Burgerer
alongside Matt Miller in about 25
minutes time for Bloomberg Open Interest
at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time. So that's the
situation with single names. Let's turn
to the economy. The next read on the
labor market is just around the corner.
Jolt's data coming at 10 a.m. Eastern
time ahead of the highly anticipated
August payrolls report due out on
Friday. With the latest, here's Mike
McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, I was just
talking with Mark Cabana in the green
room about how we're going to be looking
at Jolts and we're going to be looking
at ADP because there are a lot of
concerns about whether or not the job
market is slowing and they everybody
wants alternate data. I do want to push
back on the idea though that the bond
market or anyone else should go into
Friday's labor market report thinking
that there is something statistically
wrong with it because of what the
president has said. Uh my beautiful
chart to show this isn't working. But
basically, we had 253,000
jobs uh revised away at the last report.
In January of 2024, we had 234,000
revised away in just one month. So, it
can happen. It's not unusual. Here's the
problem. What we're seeing is fewer
people, fewer businesses responding to
the BLS surveys in the first month. But
when you look out at the final revision
after two more months, the the response
rate hasn't really changed. So people,
it's not that people aren't responding,
it's that they're responding more
slowly. Look at March 20 uh 25. We don't
have the April revisions yet. Uh 42.6%
for the initial, but 94% basically for
the revision. Not very different from
what we've been seeing in all these
other years. So the data are going to be
as good as they can be and statistically
accurate after uh as they can be after
the uh first revision. So uh or second
revision. So, uh, you can go into it
with some confidence in what the BLS is
telling you is accurate at the right
time.
>> Mike, there will be a conversation, of
course, about how to improve it. How
would you improve it? What suggestions
would you make?
>> Well, there are a couple of things that
people have suggested that be done. One
is that uh you could try to make
responses mandatory, although that is a
lot harder to do. The BLS has been
working on trying to get more people to
enter their numbers electronically. That
could be done. and then uh maybe uh
increasing the survey size or increasing
the frequency of the surveys so that
they get the these revisions more
quickly are other ideas people are
talking about. And then of course the
the standby is give them more money so
they can update their computer systems
and uh get all this working more
quickly.
>> That's one way of doing it. Mike McKe,
thank you sir. Appreciate you breaking
that down. Michael McKe there of
Bloomberg breaking down the labor market
data still to come this week. Nancy
Lazar, the chief global economist at
Piper Sandler, is bracing for a soft
employment report on Friday. She joins
us now for more. Nancy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What's a soft employment report on
Friday?
>> Well, we're we're assuming about 80,000.
That's maybe a little bit more than
consensus, but uh as of now, 80 is our
is our is our best uh is our best.
>> Isn't 80 good these days?
>> Probably 80 is is better than something
uh closer to zero uh to be sure. But it
is a very very clear shift down and you
see it in a lot of data. Companies
aren't hiring. You see that in
continuing claims. They're not firing
aggressively. Uh initial claims are
still relatively are still relatively
low. Your point earlier on the quit
rate, uh the quit rate is coming down.
People are reluctant uh to leave. And
just ask consumers. I mean, the
conference board survey of is it hard to
get a job or is it easy to get a job is
a metric I've used my entire career and
it consumers say it is hard uh to get uh
to get a job. So there's clearly been a
shift down in the labor market. Why?
companies are trying to protect their
profit margins.
>> Is 80,000 an even worse number because
of the downward revisions to Mike's
point that the longer you wait uh the
more unclear the data is in the short
run but longer term you do get just as
clear of a look in terms of responses.
>> So the household employment uh data
which comes out with the unemployment
rate actually historically at turning
points is better than payroll. I've
studied this again my entire career. It
was first written about in the 1970s.
Unlike payroll, the household uh
employment data aren't revised. There's
once a year population adjustment, but
you can smooth that out. There's been no
growth in the household employment uh
survey for the past 12 months. And then
on next Tuesday, you're going to see the
QCEW, the quarterly census uh of
employment and wages. And that's going
to likely show a very sharp reduction uh
in in payroll from March of 25 back over
the past year of about at least 800,000.
that is payroll is going to start to
look more like the household data.
Consumers know it's a weak job market.
They're cutting back on highly cyclical
uh uh uh stuff both on the good side and
on the service side. Um so it the idea
that you're getting new news from the
payroll report to me is is is
uh a little misleading. Consumers have
already reacted to this weak employment
backdrop.
>> When does this turn become a problem?
Because it's not a downturn. It's not a
downturn yet and it doesn't seem to be
heading toward any kind of recession but
this low higher low fire dynamic has
continued and people don't feel very
good but companies are doing just fine
as we see in the earnings. When does
this become a problem?
>> That's so important that companies are
are doing well in this environment
before you see can see an upturn in the
job market. Companies have to make
money. That's been a beauty of the US
economy over the past decades. Um that
companies are allowed to stop hiring and
or in some cases fire people so they can
rebuild their profitability. Um and that
then gives them the ability to hire
people. So, I think some of the most
bullish news for employment in 26 is the
fact that 2Q S&P earnings came in double
what they were supposed to uh have uh uh
been and hit a record and hit a record
high. Prior to every upturn in
employment growth, you first need an
upturn in in in earnings and profits and
we're and we're seeing it. So, kudos to
American companies.
>> Is that what you're forecasting now? A
rebound in economic activity?
>> We are. This year you're one one and a
half% um uh but you're already seeing
capital spending uh turn up. Uh
individual companies are are seeing it.
You saw it in the new order data
yesterday. Why is that happening? Well,
one, the Fed cut rates 100 basis points
a year ago and it takes about a year for
that to work through the system. Uh
second, you do have this full capex
depreciation which is the most
significant capital spending uh booster
shot since uh since Reagan uh in uh in
the early early 80s. You're seeing it in
company data. So we have 3% GDP growth
uh next year and we don't think three is
the new two. We think ne next year
inflation does shift back down to 2%.
You'll lap the tariff increases and um
you'll you'll also see further
acceleration in productivity slowing
unit.
>> That's a great setup. You're looking for
3% GDP 2% inflation. Where's the Fed in
all of that?
>> We don't need an aggressive Fed in this
cycle. Um
>> you might get one. That would make me
worried about inflation in the back half
of 26. You you have stronger potential
GDP growth which is about two and a half
two two and a half percent. Fed funds
are pretty much in line with that.
Nominal GDP growth of about five. Uh Fed
funds are a little bit lower than that.
The problems of the 70s happened because
the Fed would shove rates down way below
nominal growth creating a boom uh and
then eventual bust cycle. And so we
think maybe one cut uh uh is would be
healthy. Uh but more than that, I would
then start to worry about inflation.
>> Okay, let's take a beat. Nancy, new Fed
chair comes along. Huge selection
process and they're going to deliver one
cut in 2026.
>> Again, if the economy is help, if you go
back and look at the '9s, which is where
we think there are echoes of the '9s,
the tech tech obviously strength in the
1990s. Uh Greenspan in in 90 in '95, I
believe, cut rates just once. Um and you
had three and a half% GDP growth with
inflation slowing. you didn't need a
lower interest rate environment because
you had healthy potential GDP growth,
stronger productivity growth um and
strong very strong corporate profits and
those were the things that were driving
growth not lower interest rates. Um
again that creates problems like another
house price bubble uh andor andor a boom
in nominal GDP growth which then opens
the door to inflation. How has
artificial intelligence changed the
nature of that rebound given the fact
that this isn't necessarily going to be
a job full recovery that can be equally
distributed to uh a lot of different
people in different sectors. So under
the hood there's always creative
destruction in the employment and the
employment data. Just look at the retail
data when Amazon came on in the 1990s.
You decimated uh uh retail employment in
certain in certain sectors online online
touched sectors in particular. But at
the end of the day, overall retail
employment rose. And so creative
destruction within the job market has
gone on, not just back in the early
1900s, but even over the past 10, 20 uh
years. Tech employment has not been a
driver of the employment cycle. So I
view AI as more of a productivity
enhancing, profit boosting uh uh
mechanism that actually is going to
create uh more more jobs because
companies are going to have stronger uh
earnings.
>> You're using it and you love the beige
book. Can you tell us like what you're
doing that you think actually uh how it
affects your your job?
>> Well, uh for us uh my colleagues are are
are very talented and uh using chat
teach you can actually uh uh write code
for the um beige book and get a sense of
what what what the direction of the
economy is uh from from AI. So I'm a
product of technological innovation. I I
started with a typewriter obviously then
I went to a computer etc. will stop. But
technological innovation in this
industry is not new. Uh it just improves
our ability to to do hopefully uh not
always a better a better economic
outlook.
>> And Nancy, this was great. Appreciate
your time as always. Nancy Lazard there
of Piper Sander with some pretty punchy
calls for 2026, 3% GDP growth, 2%
inflation, and maybe only one interest
rate cut from this Federal Reserve. I
don't think that's going to get you the
job if you walk into the White House
later this year and say you're going to
cut rates maybe once next year. This is
something that nobody is pricing in
right now or very few people Nancy is
but very few people in the market
because that does seem implausible
politically. However, if growth is that
strong and revenues are that strong and
that keeps the tenure in the 30-year
down, maybe you could have a different
conversation.
>> That bond market stabilizing just a
touch so far this morning. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant will start interviewing
candidates to replace Fed Chair Jay
Powell this Friday. The Wall Street
Journal is reporting that Bessant will
talk to candidates either in person or
by video conference. There are 11
contenders for the job and Bessant plans
to recommend a finalist to President
Trump. Meanwhile, we are seeing shares
of Macy's rising 13% in the pre-market.
The retailer raised its annual outlook
and reported its best comparable sales
growth in 12 quarters. It's the latest
sign consumers are still spending
despite concerns about inflation. Macy's
also raised its fullear net sales
guidance to as much as $21.45
billion with the CEO saying this is the
beginning of a momentum change at
Macy's. And at the US Open, NovakJokovic
will play Carlos Alcarez in a
blockbuster semifound semi-final round
on Friday after the Serbian defeated
American Taylor Fritz last night in a
close match. And number four seated
American Jessica Pagoula heads to a
Grand Slam semiinal for just the second
time in her career. She will face Arena
Sabalinka tomorrow. That will be a
rematch of last year's championship
which Arena of course won. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. I just get the feeling
if Sabalanka turns up for anything, she
wins if she turns up.
>> Well, isn't that true with any of us?
Actually, no, not at all. Not not that
kind of level of tennis. But yes, she is
incredibly good. But I was actually I
was I watched the game. I know what
you're talking about with the Osaka uh
versus that that particular game.
I'm I'm interested in some of the other
games, not just the, you know, sub.
>> Okay, good. All right.
>> Anyway, this was great.
>> Thanks for that. Up next on the program,
I think.
>> Let's set you up for a day ahead. No
tennis. Plus, Mark Cabana of Bank of
America joins us to talk about this bond
market from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
there might be even more room to run on
this in terms of the concerns around Fed
independence, the concerns around
inflation, uh the concerns about a
government shutdown. We think that all
reinforces at least a steepening bias.
All of these things that we speak up for
in terms of Washington really do
reinforce this idea of a of a bond
steepening.
>> We've seen a lot of that, not just in
America, but around the world. That was
Libby Cantrol of Pimco. The good news in
the bond market so far this morning,
things have settled down in the equity
market. We are firmer by about a third
of 1% on the S&P 500. with the opening
bell just around the corner. As for the
week ahead and the day ahead is shaping
up as follows. At 10 a.m. Eastern time,
durable goods and jolts data. At 11:00
a.m., Poland's president visits the
White House. Look out for that at 2 p.m.
the Fed Beige Book. Plus tomorrow, ADP,
another round of claims and a Senate
hearing on Steven Myron's Fed
nomination. And then, of course, the big
one on Friday, the payrolls report just
around the corner. Just to stay on the
market, global bonds continuing to sell
off, particularly here in the United
States over the last 24 hours. Things
settling down though over the last
morning or so. The 30-year bond yield
coming within just one basis point of 5%
in the last session. Mark Cabana, the
head of US rate strategy at Bank of
America Global Research is with us
around the table for more. Mark, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. A lot's changed.
What's changed for you?
>> So, we think that investors should
really be focused on where the cutting
trough in this cycle is. That's still
around 3%. Um, the Fed thinks 3% is
neutral. The market seems to believe
that that's credible and that the Fed
will head there. Increasingly, at least
for our rate strategy team, we see 3% as
almost a cutting ceiling. They're going
to at least cut to there, we think. And
we think that the market is not fully
appreciating the potential range of
outcomes below 3% that the Fed could
take us to. And and that range of
outcomes we think exists because you do
have a moderating labor market. You do
have inflation that is expected to peak
around the end of this year or first
half of next year, but we also think
that you're going to have a composition
of individuals at the Fed that are going
to be targeting potentially different
objectives than the current Fed is. And
specifically what I mean by that is
think about let's say how the Fed judges
the natural rate of unemployment. The
Fed thinks that in the longer run this
level is 4.2%. They don't know that for
sure, but that's their estimate. What's
to stop a new composition of Fed
officials from targeting a potential 3
12% or sub 4% type of natural rate of
unemployment? Uh, and we think that
you're going to increasingly hear these
types of arguments from individuals that
are being considered to adopt leadership
positions at the Fed. I'll certainly be
listening for that on Thursday with
Myron's testimony um because we have
heard from other, let's say, Fed chair
contenders that they're open to this
idea. Um, and if the Fed does indeed
adopt that type of approach, that opens
up the range of outcomes for where the
funds rate can go well below 3%. We
think you want to be received five-year
OIS to benefit from that. It also means
that you should be expecting that longer
run inflation expectations move up um
because they are still very well
anchored. We agree with the Fed's
assessment on that. We think that they
can be moving up. We think that the
inflation curve can be steepening and we
think that the nominal curve should also
be steepening in that type of
environment. Finally, we like being
short 30-year asset swap spreads because
we do worry about some of this supply
demand dynamic at the back end of the
rates curve. If the Fed is, let's say,
cutting to rates lower than what many of
us would think are justified by
fundamentals today, who's going to buy
the bond? If you're worried about upside
inflation risks and the deficit is still
not improving materially, who's going to
take down all that long duration
Treasury supply? So, we think you want
to be positioned for that. We like being
short 30-year asset swap spreads to do
so.
>> So, as you talk, I'm thinking I'm going
to hide in gold. I'm going to hide in
the most progrowth stocks because
essentially they're going to juice
everything. I mean, essentially, isn't
what you're saying really positive for
stocks, really positive for gold,
terrible for the dollar, and don't even
touch that 30-year bond.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. So, that's basically what you're
looking for right now. And uh we just
think that again you can focus on
fundamentals and fundamentals and our
economists and kudos to them are still
very much rooted in that. They're
thinking this is an economy that's not
headed into a recession where you've got
stagflationary risks where uh inflation
is going to be 3% or higher by the end
of the year. Um and where the Fed is
running the risk of a policy mistake by
cutting later this year if that's indeed
what they do. Um, and so they're
thinking, why would the Fed be doing
this? And I understand that from a
fundamental perspective, but we've all
seen the headlines. We've all seen at
least or we've heard some of the
approaches that individuals who are
being nominated or considered for Fed
leadership positions are espousing. And
all of those, at least to me as a rate
strategist, say, why are they going to
stop at three? Why would they do that?
Waller is just saying, "No, we're going
to cut to neutral, or I think we should
be heading to neutral, and I think
neutral is 3%." But he'll be the first
to tell you that he doesn't know where
neutral is. And then once you start to
contemplate some of these other
arguments, we suspect about lower
natural rate of unemployment and really
strong GDP and uh, you know, deficit
financing levels, which is not in the
Fed's mandate, but certainly you hear
that line of argument from
administration officials. Once that
creeps into the dialogue, then why would
they be stopping at three? So, we just
think again that the distribution of
rate outcomes is much greater to the
downside than what the market is
currently pricing. Not necessarily due
to fundamentals, but due to a shift in
the approach for how the Fed will likely
be thinking about setting monetary
policy.
>> You know, I give you a lot of credit for
trying to force people to think outside
a conventional framework because I think
that what we could see next year could
be very unconventional. the idea of
targeting something sub 4.2% on uh the
jobs market and ignoring the inflation
possibility. I'm just thinking I mean I
understand why people are pro- risk in
that environment because why wouldn't
you be prriskisk at a time where they're
trying to juice growth at the expense
potentially of inflation.
>> We got to run I think
>> we're against the clock 15 20 seconds.
>> Okay. So what stops this? We think two
things stop this. Number one, popular
discontent with inflation the voter. But
I don't know about you. would imagine
that it takes above 3% inflation to
really bring it, you know, individuals
out to the ballot box on this issue or
two, loss of control on the back end and
you're going to be looking at Bessant
cutting auction sizes in that event or
potentially the Fed using the ballot
sheet.
>> Nice as always. Always take it down to
the wire. Thank you, Michael, Bank of
America. Thank you from New York City.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.